11 Quick Facts About A Potential Government Shutdown
11 Quick Facts About A Potential Government Shutdown
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kelly Phillips Erb       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. U.S. President Donald Trump, center, speaks as U.S. Vice President Mike Pence, left, and U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan, a Republican from Wisconsin, listen during a joint session of Congress in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Tuesday, Feb. 28, 2017.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg Are we really headed towards a government shutdown? As Congress and the White House grapple with the next steps, here's what you need to know: Congress hasn't presented a funding bill for signature. Without the bill, the government isn't authorized to pay its bills which means that the lights won't stay on. April 29. That's the day that the government runs out of money if Congress and the White House don't act. Of course not. Even if Congress agrees on a plan, the chances of pushing something through the House and the Senate before the end of next week are pretty slim. Expect an extension (yes, Congress can do that). Ideally, to stop the shutdown, Congress would pass an appropriations bill. Since that likely isn't going to happen (see #8 below), Congress can pass a continuing resolution (CR) to keep funding where it is now until a larger appropriations bill (a so-called omnibus bill) can be pushed through Congress. Congress could also pass a "CRomnibus" (yes, that awful term from 2014 is back in the news) which is part continuing resolution (CR) and part omnibus. Not much. A current bill would only fund the government through the rest of fiscal year 2017. The government's fiscal year ends on September 30, 2017, and the new fiscal year will begin on October 1, 2017. The Trump Administration is expected to submit its first complete budget, this one for the fiscal year 2018, in May of 2017. The fiscal year begin in October. However, because of the November 2016 elections, Congress didn't pass a long term bill for fiscal year 2017. Then, the Trump administration advised Congress that it wanted to be involved in determining fiscal year 2017 spending and asked for a delay . Congress extended the deadline - without passing any significant budget bills - through April of 2017. Maybe because we are. There have been government shutdowns since at least the Ford administration. Over last several administrations, however, shutdowns have become more common. President Bush sent government workers packing over the long Columbus Day weekend in 1990. There were two multi-day government shutdowns during the Clinton administration: a five-day shutdown in 1995 and three-week shutdown in 1996. And in 2013, a 16 day shutdown held government hostage during the Obama administration. Threats of a shutdown are a nearly annual occurrence. We barely avoided a shutdown in 2014 , again in 2015 , and in 2016 . Notice a pattern? Good question. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) is in Europe and Congress is on recess. Congress is scheduled to return to session on April 24. Any negotiations, such as they are, are happening outside of chambers. It's a given that for tax reform to be successful, it will have to involve some serious discussions about spending and potentially, entitlements. Where to cut? That's a question not likely to be resolved before next week. Repealing Obamacare was a key part of the GOP plan for tax reform. Efforts to repeal Obamacare failed last month and Speaker Ryan pulled the vote . Some Democrats and Republicans may view health care votes as their leverage for tax reform (hamster meet wheel). The White House insists that the wall will be built and that construction will start soon. The President had initially promised that Mexico would pay for the wall, but it now appears that U.S. taxpayers will foot the bill for the wall which is estimated to cost between $8 billion ( Trump's estimate ) and $70 billion . Democratic leaders and some fiscally hawkish Republicans have refused to sign off on those numbers if U.S. taxpayers have to pay out of pocket. Increasing defense spending was a major promise during the Trump campaign. Some key Republican leaders - like Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) - support the increase but others are balking at significant increases to military spending. Well, that depends on who you ask, doesn't it? With Republicans controlling both houses of Congress and the White House, it's likely that a lot of blame for a government shutdown would fall on the current administration. With midterm elections looming in 2018, that's not a charge that Republicans want to have to defend. Sigh. Who knows? Remember, this bill just has to get the country through September so, in theory, it shouldn't be a huge deal. Congress ought to be able to do some kind of patchwork magic to stumble through until then - but then they've had months to get something done to date and are still bumping up against the deadline. In addition, President Trump's 100-day benchmark is looming - also April 29 - and both supporters and critics believe that he needs a big win right now to maintain control. That makes what could have been a less important spending bill more important and why the President is pushing Speaker Ryan again on an Obamacare repeal effort. That combination is somewhat volatile - and the GOP doesn't have much wiggle room. While Republicans control the majority in both Houses, the margin is slim in the Senate: they have just 52 votes. The GOP needs all of those votes plus support from Democrats (for a total of 60) for an appropriations package. The President has ordered federal agencies to began preparing for a potential partial government shutdown but has publicly dismissed the action as routine, telling reporters on Friday, "I think we’re in good shape." 15 Impacts Of A Federal Shutdown Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Are we really headed towards a government shutdown? As Congress and the White House grapple with the next steps, here's what you need to know:

1. How could we be facing a government shutdown?

Congress hasn't presented a funding bill for signature. Without the bill, the government isn't authorized to pay its bills which means that the lights won't stay on.

2. What's the deadline?

April 29. That's the day that the government runs out of money if Congress and the White House don't act.

3. Is that a real deadline?

Of course not. Even if Congress agrees on a plan, the chances of pushing something through the House and the Senate before the end of next week are pretty slim. Expect an extension (yes, Congress can do that).

Ideally, to stop the shutdown, Congress would pass an appropriations bill. Since that likely isn't going to happen (see #8 below), Congress can pass a continuing resolution (CR) to keep funding where it is now until a larger appropriations bill (a so-called omnibus bill) can be pushed through Congress. Congress could also pass a "CRomnibus" (yes, that awful term from 2014 is back in the news) which is part continuing resolution (CR) and part omnibus.

4. If we fix this now, how much time will it buy us?

Not much. A current bill would only fund the government through the rest of fiscal year 2017. The government's fiscal year ends on September 30, 2017, and the new fiscal year will begin on October 1, 2017. The Trump Administration is expected to submit its first complete budget, this one for the fiscal year 2018, in May of 2017.

5. Wait, now I'm confused. If the fiscal year begins in October, why are we having this discussion in April?

The fiscal year does begin in October. However, because of the November 2016 elections, Congress didn't pass a long term bill for fiscal year 2017. Then, the Trump administration advised Congress that it wanted to be involved in determining fiscal year 2017 spending and asked for a delay. Congress extended the deadline - without passing any significant budget bills - through April of 2017.

6. Why does it feel like we're under constant threat of a shutdown?

Maybe because we are.

There have been government shutdowns since at least the Ford administration. Over last several administrations, however, shutdowns have become more common. President Bush sent government workers packing over the long Columbus Day weekend in 1990. There were two multi-day government shutdowns during the Clinton administration: a five-day shutdown in 1995 and three-week shutdown in 1996. And in 2013, a 16 day shutdown held government hostage during the Obama administration.

Threats of a shutdown are a nearly annual occurrence. We barely avoided a shutdown in 2014, again in 2015, and in 2016. Notice a pattern?

7. What is Congress doing this week to avoid a shutdown?

Good question. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) is in Europe and Congress is on recess. Congress is scheduled to return to session on April 24. Any negotiations, such as they are, are happening outside of chambers.

8. What are the major budgetary sticking points?

Tax reform. It's a given that for tax reform to be successful, it will have to involve some serious discussions about spending and potentially, entitlements. Where to cut? That's a question not likely to be resolved before next week.

Obamacare. Repealing Obamacare was a key part of the GOP plan for tax reform. Efforts to repeal Obamacare failed last month and Speaker Ryan pulled the vote. Some Democrats and Republicans may view health care votes as their leverage for tax reform (hamster meet wheel).

The US/Mexico border wall. The White House insists that the wall will be built and that construction will start soon. The President had initially promised that Mexico would pay for the wall, but it now appears that U.S. taxpayers will foot the bill for the wall which is estimated to cost between $8 billion (Trump's estimate) and $70 billion. Democratic leaders and some fiscally hawkish Republicans have refused to sign off on those numbers if U.S. taxpayers have to pay out of pocket.

Defense spending. Increasing defense spending was a major promise during the Trump campaign. Some key Republican leaders - like Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) - support the increase but others are balking at significant increases to military spending.

9. So who is to blame?

Well, that depends on who you ask, doesn't it? With Republicans controlling both houses of Congress and the White House, it's likely that a lot of blame for a government shutdown would fall on the current administration. With midterm elections looming in 2018, that's not a charge that Republicans want to have to defend.

10. What are the chances that Congress and the White House will agree on a bill?

Sigh. Who knows? Remember, this bill just has to get the country through September so, in theory, it shouldn't be a huge deal. Congress ought to be able to do some kind of patchwork magic to stumble through until then - but then they've had months to get something done to date and are still bumping up against the deadline.

In addition, President Trump's 100-day benchmark is looming - also April 29 - and both supporters and critics believe that he needs a big win right now to maintain control. That makes what could have been a less important spending bill more important and why the President is pushing Speaker Ryan again on an Obamacare repeal effort.

That combination is somewhat volatile - and the GOP doesn't have much wiggle room. While Republicans control the majority in both Houses, the margin is slim in the Senate: they have just 52 votes. The GOP needs all of those votes plus support from Democrats (for a total of 60) for an appropriations package.

11. What does the President have to say?

The President has ordered federal agencies to began preparing for a potential partial government shutdown but has publicly dismissed the action as routine, telling reporters on Friday, "I think we’re in good shape."

Want more taxgirl goodness? Pick your poison: follow me on twitter, hang out on Facebook and Google, play on Pinterest or check out my YouTube channel.