Rihanna keeps sharing these photos of the Queen photoshopped onto things and nobody knows what to think
Rihanna keeps sharing these photos of the Queen photoshopped onto things and nobody knows what to think
Which might go some way to explaining why RiRi has been sharing photoshopped images of Queen Elizabeth II's head on her own outfits. The Queen turned 91 this weekend, and it seems the Rude Boy singer took issue with the low-key celebrations and decided to spice up proceedings with a little pizzaz. Rihanna shared four pictures of the Queen's face superimposed over her own in some of her most extra photos, and shared them on her Instagram - and her 52 million odd followers. Here they are, in all their glory... be humble. A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on  it's not that deep. A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on  #gucci UPDATE: Mumz said she won't too happy bout this post so I had to edit *insert appropriate Gucci Mane lyrics here* A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on  y'all chickens is ash and I'm lotion. 😂 A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on  The photos have gone suitably viral, with almost a million likes. But while many of the comments appreciated the naughty humour and apparent affection behind the pictures, other commenters branded the photos disrespectful and inappropriate. This is horrific and distasteful.  You should be ashamed of yourself! Disgusting.  I’m not English or a Brit, but I find these series of photos disturbing. It’s like doing it with photos of my grandmother. These lack taste whatsoever.  Yep, its made the headlines. Just what I thought you attention seeking whore!!... Is it funny? Or just stupid... But rihanna?... NOT funny... Publicity stunt! This may come back on you thou stupid girl...  Although, in the words of RiRi...                    Keep scrolling for next article

Many worship Rihanna as the 21st century Queen of Pop.

Which might go some way to explaining why RiRi has been sharing photoshopped images of Queen Elizabeth II's head on her own outre outfits.

The Queen turned 91 this weekend, and it seems the Rude Boy singer took issue with the low-key celebrations and decided to spice up proceedings with a little pizzaz.

Rihanna shared four pictures of the Queen's face superimposed over her own in some of her most extra photos, and shared them on her Instagram - and her 52 million odd followers.

Here they are, in all their glory...

Humble Queen.

be humble. A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Apr 22, 2017 at 9:24am PDT

Fancy Queen.

it's not that deep. A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Apr 22, 2017 at 12:44pm PDT

Gucci Queen.

#gucci UPDATE: Mumz said she won't too happy bout this post so I had to edit *insert appropriate Gucci Mane lyrics here* A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Apr 22, 2017 at 9:37am PDT

Lotion Queen.

y'all chickens is ash and I'm lotion. 😂 A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Apr 22, 2017 at 9:26am PDT

The photos have gone suitably viral, with almost a million likes.

But while many of the comments appreciated the naughty humour and apparent affection behind the pictures, other commenters branded the photos disrespectful and inappropriate.

This is horrific and distasteful.

You should be ashamed of yourself! Disgusting.

I’m not English or a Brit, but I find these series of photos disturbing. It’s like doing it with photos of my grandmother. These lack taste whatsoever.

Yep, its made the headlines. Just what I thought you attention seeking whore!!... Is it funny? Or just stupid... But rihanna?... NOT funny... Publicity stunt! This may come back on you thou stupid girl...

Although, in the words of RiRi...

It's not that deep.

More: Rihanna thinks she can wink. Rihanna can't wink.

More: This girl went as Rihanna for her school's 'celebrity day' and Rihanna loved it