Great Leaders Don't Speak Ill Of Their Predecessors
Great Leaders Don't Speak Ill Of Their Predecessors
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Don Yaeger       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr (AP Photo/Tony Dejak) Sunday night brought euphoria in Cleveland. The Cavaliers ended a 52-year major sport championship drought, winning the NBA title. On the flip side, the Warriors lost three games in a row to lose the championship. Despite the series outcome, most will agree the Warriors are a great team and Steve Kerr is one of the best coaches of the game. But among the most impressive pieces of his leadership has been how Kerr has handled his walk past the man he replaced as coach of the team during each game of the Finals. Sitting on the sidelines, calling the games for ESPN, was Mark Jackson who coached Golden State for three years before being fired in 2014. While the Warriors made the playoffs for the first time in 17 years under Jackson, the team’s owners didn’t think he was the right coach to bring an NBA championship to the Bay and instead hired Kerr. 30 Inspiring Quotes From Amazing Athletes And Coaches That gamble paid off as Kerr has led the Warriors to an NBA title last year and a record number of wins this season. One of the reasons Kerr has been so successful is the respect he has shown Jackson. While he had a falling out with Golden State’s ownership, Jackson remained popular with the players even after Kerr took over. During his two years as coach, Kerr has never said a bad word about Jackson to the media, in the locker room, or any time he has been addressing the public. It’s a good strategy which has helped Kerr guide the Warriors to greatness. “As a leader, one of the things that’s most important is to know your team needs to see you as confident,” Kerr told me last year during an interview. “One of the places you can show your greatest weakness is in how you speak about the person who held your job before you.” Too often, leaders feel the need to belittle their predecessors as they try to leave their mark on an organization. Sometimes it feels like a childish “I’m better than him/her and here’s how” discussion. But great leaders have no problems looking to whoever held their jobs before them for ideas and inspiration. Golden State Warriors guard Klay Thompson talks with head coach Steve Kerr. (AP Photo/Tony Dejak) Kerr, for example, kept Jackson’s “Just us!” chant each time the Warriors break a huddle. During his tenure, Jackson put up a poster that reads “Must Be Just About Us” and hung it in the locker room. Even with a new coach in charge, the poster is still there. The players, especially superstar Stephen Curry, appreciated Kerr not trying to wipe away Jackson’s legacy. Kerr’s approach let the players to rally behind the new coach. Kerr also won their support by going out of his way to praise Jackson, insisting he was building on the fired coach’s legacy. Over the years, Kerr has been able to study how to build a great team firsthand. During his time as a player, Kerr was fortunate enough to have some of the greatest coaches of our era guiding him: Lute Olson at the University of Arizona, Phil Jackson in Chicago, and Greg Popovich in San Antonio. Kerr told me he learned a great deal from all three of those coaches. “I think the common denominator in terms of their personalities and character was they are all absolutely 100% in charge,” Kerr said about those coaches. “That was never in question. They all had a really strong presence and self-confidence. They didn’t need to tear anyone down because they were sure of themselves. That engendered respect. It all showed in their character and their personalities, and a deep intelligence the players can see. There is conviction there. You know you really can’t mess around but there is also an enduring quality that brings out the best in people because you want to play whatever part they ask of you. I think that is a rare combination to have those things as a coach or as a human being to have all that.” As part of his pursuit of greatness, Kerr continues to study leadership, even branching outside of basketball to twice visit Pete Carroll, the Super Bowl winning head coach of the Seattle Seahawks, to learn how he runs his team. “I loved watching Pete’s teams and I wanted my team to look like his basically,” Kerr told me. “I felt like I shared a connection to Pete even though we had never met,with the California background and a similar way of looking at sports teams in terms of being fun, high energy and they playing hard together. How do you achieve all that? I wanted to see how he gets his teams to play at such a high level and have so much fun at the same time.” Even though he has reached the coaching pinnacle – and even though he failed to reach it a second time Sunday night – Kerr continues to study great teams and the coaches who lead them. In doing so, Kerr’s learned some valuable lessons, including not to trash the efforts of his predecessor. That kind of insight has made Steve Kerr an important player and the coach of some great teams. What ideas have you used from the people who held your job before you? Did you have a Steve Kerr or Mark Jackson on your team? I’d love to hear your story! Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Sunday night brought euphoria in Cleveland. The Cavaliers ended a 52-year major sport championship drought, winning the NBA title. On the flip side, the Warriors lost three games in a row to lose the championship. Despite the series outcome, most will agree the Warriors are a great team and Steve Kerr is one of the best coaches of the game.

But among the most impressive pieces of his leadership has been how Kerr has handled his walk past the man he replaced as coach of the team during each game of the Finals. Sitting on the sidelines, calling the games for ESPN, was Mark Jackson who coached Golden State for three years before being fired in 2014. While the Warriors made the playoffs for the first time in 17 years under Jackson, the team’s owners didn’t think he was the right coach to bring an NBA championship to the Bay and instead hired Kerr.

That gamble paid off as Kerr has led the Warriors to an NBA title last year and a record number of wins this season. One of the reasons Kerr has been so successful is the respect he has shown Jackson.

While he had a falling out with Golden State’s ownership, Jackson remained popular with the players even after Kerr took over. During his two years as coach, Kerr has never said a bad word about Jackson to the media, in the locker room, or any time he has been addressing the public. It’s a good strategy which has helped Kerr guide the Warriors to greatness.

“As a leader, one of the things that’s most important is to know your team needs to see you as confident,” Kerr told me last year during an interview. “One of the places you can show your greatest weakness is in how you speak about the person who held your job before you.”

Too often, leaders feel the need to belittle their predecessors as they try to leave their mark on an organization. Sometimes it feels like a childish “I’m better than him/her and here’s how” discussion. But great leaders have no problems looking to whoever held their jobs before them for ideas and inspiration.

Kerr, for example, kept Jackson’s “Just us!” chant each time the Warriors break a huddle. During his tenure, Jackson put up a poster that reads “Must Be Just About Us” and hung it in the locker room. Even with a new coach in charge, the poster is still there. The players, especially superstar Stephen Curry, appreciated Kerr not trying to wipe away Jackson’s legacy. Kerr’s approach let the players to rally behind the new coach. Kerr also won their support by going out of his way to praise Jackson, insisting he was building on the fired coach’s legacy.

Over the years, Kerr has been able to study how to build a great team firsthand. During his time as a player, Kerr was fortunate enough to have some of the greatest coaches of our era guiding him: Lute Olson at the University of Arizona, Phil Jackson in Chicago, and Greg Popovich in San Antonio. Kerr told me he learned a great deal from all three of those coaches.

“I think the common denominator in terms of their personalities and character was they are all absolutely 100% in charge,” Kerr said about those coaches. “That was never in question. They all had a really strong presence and self-confidence. They didn’t need to tear anyone down because they were sure of themselves. That engendered respect. It all showed in their character and their personalities, and a deep intelligence the players can see. There is conviction there. You know you really can’t mess around but there is also an enduring quality that brings out the best in people because you want to play whatever part they ask of you. I think that is a rare combination to have those things as a coach or as a human being to have all that.”

As part of his pursuit of greatness, Kerr continues to study leadership, even branching outside of basketball to twice visit Pete Carroll, the Super Bowl winning head coach of the Seattle Seahawks, to learn how he runs his team.

“I loved watching Pete’s teams and I wanted my team to look like his basically,” Kerr told me. “I felt like I shared a connection to Pete even though we had never met,with the California background and a similar way of looking at sports teams in terms of being fun, high energy and they playing hard together. How do you achieve all that? I wanted to see how he gets his teams to play at such a high level and have so much fun at the same time.”

Even though he has reached the coaching pinnacle – and even though he failed to reach it a second time Sunday night – Kerr continues to study great teams and the coaches who lead them. In doing so, Kerr’s learned some valuable lessons, including not to trash the efforts of his predecessor. That kind of insight has made Steve Kerr an important player and the coach of some great teams.

What ideas have you used from the people who held your job before you? Did you have a Steve Kerr or Mark Jackson on your team? I’d love to hear your story!

Disclosure: I wrote the majority of this column when the Golden State Warriors were up 3 games to 1 on the Cleveland Cavaliers and looked headed to their second straight NBA championship. But the Cavaliers made history, becoming the first team to bounce back from that deficit to win an NBA title last night showing determination and grit as they brought the title to Cleveland. Still, I believe the point here is valid and I wanted to offer it.

Don Yaeger is a motivational speaker, associate editor of Sports Illustrated magazine and the author of Great Teams.