Chris Evans is latest Hollywood star to read CBeebies Bedtime Story
Chris Evans is latest Hollywood star to read CBeebies Bedtime Story
‘Captain America’ star Chris Evans has been announced as the latest movie megastar to read a CBeebies ‘Bedtime Story’. The 35-year-old American, best known for playing Steve Rogers in the Marvel Cinematic Universe , will read ‘Even Superheroes Have Bad Days’, by Shelly Becker and Eda Kaban. His ‘Bedtime Story’ will be broadcast on CBeebies at 6.50pm on Wednesday 10 May, according to the BBC. The press release explains the story, first published in 2016, “has lots of fun ideas to help little ones cope when they’re feeling overwhelmed” and that “Chris tells the tale of how they can channel their energies”. Sounds like the ideal man for the job. Chris Evans says: “I’m honoured to be the next guest on CBeebies Bedtime Stories which is such a special show. I hope families have as much fun watching as I had reading!” Evans follows in the footsteps of Tom Hardy who recently set young parents’ hearts aflutter reading a series of ‘Bedtime Stories’ on the BBC channel aged at pre-school kids. The two Hollywood stars join the illustrious ranks of celebrities who have also presented a CBeebies ‘Bedtime Story’, including Isla Fisher, Jessica Ennis-Hill, Emilia Fox, Damian Lewis, David Tennant, Rosamund Pike, Tim Peake, Nadiya Hussain, Warwick Davis, Derek Jacobi, Maxine Peake, James McAvoy and David Hasselhoff. Chris Evans can next be seen on screen in ‘Gifted’, a new drama from ‘The Amazing Spider-Man’ director Marc Webb, and he’ll also return as Captain America in 2018’s ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ which is in production now. Watch a trailer for ‘Gifted’, in UK cinemas on 16 June, below.

Chris Evans is set to read ‘Even Superheroes Have Bad Days’, by Shelly Becker and Eda Kaban (BBC/Photographer: Pete Dadds)

‘Captain America’ star Chris Evans has been announced as the latest movie megastar to read a CBeebies ‘Bedtime Story’.

The 35-year-old American, best known for playing Steve Rogers in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, will read ‘Even Superheroes Have Bad Days’, by Shelly Becker and Eda Kaban. His ‘Bedtime Story’ will be broadcast on CBeebies at 6.50pm on Wednesday 10 May, according to the BBC.

The press release explains the story, first published in 2016, “has lots of fun ideas to help little ones cope when they’re feeling overwhelmed” and that “Chris tells the tale of how they can channel their energies”.

Captain America star Chris Evans follows in Tom Hardy’s footsteps on CBeebies (BBC/Photographer: Pete Dadds) More

Sounds like the ideal man for the job.

Chris Evans says: “I’m honoured to be the next guest on CBeebies Bedtime Stories which is such a special show. I hope families have as much fun watching as I had reading!”

Evans follows in the footsteps of Tom Hardy who recently set young parents’ hearts aflutter reading a series of ‘Bedtime Stories’ on the BBC channel aged at pre-school kids.

The two Hollywood stars join the illustrious ranks of celebrities who have also presented a CBeebies ‘Bedtime Story’, including Isla Fisher, Jessica Ennis-Hill, Emilia Fox, Damian Lewis, David Tennant, Rosamund Pike, Tim Peake, Nadiya Hussain, Warwick Davis, Derek Jacobi, Maxine Peake, James McAvoy and David Hasselhoff.

‘Even Superheroes Have Bad Days’ by Shelly Becker, Eda Kaban (Sterling/Amazon) More

Chris Evans can next be seen on screen in ‘Gifted’, a new drama from ‘The Amazing Spider-Man’ director Marc Webb, and he’ll also return as Captain America in 2018’s ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ which is in production now.

Watch a trailer for ‘Gifted’, in UK cinemas on 16 June, below.





Read more

Margot Robbie casting backlash

Tom Hardy ad sends Twitter into meltdown

Actors you forgot were in Star Wars



