This Antiques Roadshow guest just discovered her family heirloom is worth £150,000
This Antiques Roadshow guest just discovered her family heirloom is worth £150,000
guest on the most recent episode of BBC One's Antiques Roadshow was moved to tears on discovering that the family heirloom she had bought along to be assessed by an expert was worth an astonishing £150,000. The item - a delicate, sparking bracelet - was presented by its owner, who told presenter Geoffrey Munn she didn't know where it originated from. "I inherited it from my mother in law," she said. "It was bought for her by her husband, who may have bought it in an auction. He traveled a lot around the world so he may have purchased it anywhere on his travels." r Munn, the Antiques Roadshow's longest-serving jewellery specialist, was visibily impressed by the art deco item, believed to have been made between 1927 and the early 1930s. "This is like a collision of art and intrinsic value," he said. "There's a sort of atomic explosion as they crash together, because this is what everbody wants. "I don't know about you but I'm nearly fainting!" After Mr Munn revealed the bracelet was worth £150,000, the owner gasped in amazement - as did a number of onlookers - before she broke into tears. "It really was the last gasp of luxury at that level, really," said Mr Munn of the bracelet. "We never saw it again after the Second World War. This was bought for sheer pleasure."

A guest on the most recent episode of BBC One's Antiques Roadshow was moved to tears on discovering that the family heirloom she had bought along to be assessed by an expert was worth an astonishing £150,000.

The item - a delicate, sparking bracelet - was presented by its owner, who told presenter Geoffrey Munn she didn't know where it originated from.

"I inherited it from my mother in law," she said. "It was bought for her by her husband, who may have bought it in an auction. He traveled a lot around the world so he may have purchased it anywhere on his travels."