Hershey’s just announced a major change to their chocolate, and it’s probably a good plan
Hershey’s just announced a major change to their chocolate, and it’s probably a good plan
America’s most iconic chocolate, Hershey’s , is slimming down . Hershey announced earlier this week that half of its candy bars and candy products will drop to 200 calories or less. They expect the shift to be fully in place by the year 2022. In a press release , the company stated that it expects to meet the goal in two ways. First of all, they will be reformulating their products . Additionally, they will adjust the size of certain items . The changes will affect standard and king-sized items. We can’t help but wonder if this means they’ll merely be getting smaller, which at first is like, not cool. We’ll have to buy more candy bars to make it through our eighteenth bingeing of . But it’s probably a good idea, though. By the end of 2018, the company aims to apply easy-to-read caloric information to the front of all of its products. “We aim to delight our consumers and these steps will provide an even wider range of portion options and clear information to help them select treats that fit their lifestyle,” Hershey president and CEO Michele Buck said. The changes were inspired by customer feedback, according to Hershey. “We’re calling it informed choice — where I can walk up to the display and if I want a king size, that’s my choice, but I want to know what I’m buying and how many calories are involved,” spokesman Jeff Beckman told . We like the sound of choice and freedom of information. As long as our Hershey bars still taste like our childhood dreams , we’re cool.

America’s most iconic chocolate, Hershey’s, is slimming down. Hershey announced earlier this week that half of its candy bars and candy products will drop to 200 calories or less. They expect the shift to be fully in place by the year 2022.

In a press release, the company stated that it expects to meet the goal in two ways. First of all, they will be reformulating their products. Additionally, they will adjust the size of certain items.

The changes will affect standard and king-sized items.

We can’t help but wonder if this means they’ll merely be getting smaller, which at first is like, not cool. We’ll have to buy more candy bars to make it through our eighteenth bingeing of Buffy. But it’s probably a good idea, though.

By the end of 2018, the company aims to apply easy-to-read caloric information to the front of all of its products.

“We aim to delight our consumers and these steps will provide an even wider range of portion options and clear information to help them select treats that fit their lifestyle,” Hershey president and CEO Michele Buck said.

The changes were inspired by customer feedback, according to Hershey.

“We’re calling it informed choice — where I can walk up to the display and if I want a king size, that’s my choice, but I want to know what I’m buying and how many calories are involved,” spokesman Jeff Beckman told USA Today.

We like the sound of choice and freedom of information. As long as our Hershey bars still taste like our childhood dreams, we’re cool.