Boy, 12, arrested trying to drive across Australia avoided suspicion because 'he is 6ft tall and looks 19'
Boy, 12, arrested trying to drive across Australia avoided suspicion because 'he is 6ft tall and looks 19'
12-year-old boy who was arrested while attempting to drive alone across Australia filled the car up at an outback petrol station  but avoided suspicion because he was six-feet-tall and looked like he was “maybe 19 or 20”. The boy was eventually arrested some five hours later, about 800 miles from his home in the town of Kendall on the east coast. He had stolen his family’s car at 11am on Friday and was headed to the city of Perth on the west coast, a total journey of about 2,500 miles. Vamshi Reddy, a petrol station manager in the outback town of Cobar, said the boy put £11 worth of petrol in the car on Saturday at about 6am but drove off without paying. “When I saw him, he looked like a nice person who was maybe 19 or 20,” he said. “When police told me he was 12 ... I was shocked.” Police arrested the boy in the remote town of Broken Hill on Saturday at 11am after highway patrol officers spotted the car’s bumper bar dragging along the road. Detective Inspector Kim Fehon said the boy’s parents were distressed and were “extremely relieved” to be reunited with him. “His parents reported him missing immediately after he left home, so they were looking for him,” she said. he said the boy appeared to have had a small accident during his journey and confirmed that he looked older than 12 years old. “Despite being 12-years-old he is about six foot tall,” she said. he boy and his parents have travelled back to their home town. Police are expected to charge him with three offences under the young offenders act, including the illegal use of a car, unlicensed driving and failing to pay for petrol. Despite some praise for the boy on social media – where some commended him for avoiding a major accident – police said he deserves no acclaim. “Not only was the child’s life at risk but all the people he went past and came in contact with,” she said.

A 12-year-old boy who was arrested while attempting to drive alone across Australia filled the car up at an outback petrol station but avoided suspicion because he was six-feet-tall and looked like he was “maybe 19 or 20”.

The boy was eventually arrested some five hours later, about 800 miles from his home in the town of Kendall on the east coast. He had stolen his family’s car at 11am on Friday and was headed to the city of Perth on the west coast, a total journey of about 2,500 miles.

Vamshi Reddy, a petrol station manager in the outback town of Cobar, said the boy put £11 worth of petrol in the car on Saturday at about 6am but drove off without paying.

“When I saw him, he looked like a nice person who was maybe 19 or 20,” he said.

“When police told me he was 12 ... I was shocked.”

Police arrested the boy in the remote town of Broken Hill on Saturday at 11am after highway patrol officers spotted the car’s bumper bar dragging along the road.

Detective Inspector Kim Fehon said the boy’s parents were distressed and were “extremely relieved” to be reunited with him.