If Centre Has Its Way, Cows May Soon Get Aadhaar-Like Unique Identification Numbers
If Centre Has Its Way, Cows May Soon Get Aadhaar-Like Unique Identification Numbers
If Centre Has Its Way, Cows May Soon Get Aadhaar-Like Unique Identification Numbers The central government has, amid debate over vigilantism, on Monday proposed to the Supreme court for providing aadhaar-like unique identification number to cows in India, ANI reported. "Each cow and its progeny across India should get a Unique Identification Number for tracking," the government said in its report to the apex court. The government has also recommended special care for cattle beyond age of milking, while stressing on the launching of a scheme for distressed farmers. The centre also highlighted the issue of cow protection and smuggling of cattle across India-Bangladesh border. According to a report published in The Economics Times, the animal husbandry department had assigned technicians to affix a tag with a 12-digit unique identification number inside the ear of cows. As per the report, nearly one lakh technicians have been armed with 50,000 tablets. Their mission is to affix a polyurethane tag on the ears of the cattle with a tag applicator. The yellow-colored tag is fixed in the centre of the earlobe. Once the tag is fixed, the technician will use a tablet to update the number in an online database and also provide the cattle owner with an "animal health card" recording the UID number, owner's details, the status of periodic deworming and vaccinations of the animal as well as breeding details.This will help track the cattle along with all relevant details. Centre also recommends special care for cattle beyond age of milking. Also stresses on launching of a scheme for distressed farmers The move will help in tagging and tracking cattle so that they are vaccinated on time and scientific intervention is made available for better breeding and increasing milk production, doubling income of dairy farmers in the process by 2022.

The central government has, amid debate over vigilantism, on Monday proposed to the Supreme court for providing aadhaar-like unique identification number to cows in India, ANI reported.

"Each cow and its progeny across India should get a Unique Identification Number for tracking," the government said in its report to the apex court.

BCCL/Representational Image

The government has also recommended special care for cattle beyond age of milking, while stressing on the launching of a scheme for distressed farmers.

The centre also highlighted the issue of cow protection and smuggling of cattle across India-Bangladesh border.

BCCL/Representational Image

According to a report published in The Economics Times, the animal husbandry department had assigned technicians to affix a tag with a 12-digit unique identification number inside the ear of cows.

As per the report, nearly one lakh technicians have been armed with 50,000 tablets. Their mission is to affix a polyurethane tag on the ears of the cattle with a tag applicator.

BCCL/Representational Image

The yellow-colored tag is fixed in the centre of the earlobe.

Once the tag is fixed, the technician will use a tablet to update the number in an online database and also provide the cattle owner with an "animal health card" recording the UID number, owner's details, the status of periodic deworming and vaccinations of the animal as well as breeding details.This will help track the cattle along with all relevant details.

Centre also recommends special care for cattle beyond age of milking. Also stresses on launching of a scheme for distressed farmers — ANI (@ANI_news) 24 April 2017

The move will help in tagging and tracking cattle so that they are vaccinated on time and scientific intervention is made available for better breeding and increasing milk production, doubling income of dairy farmers in the process by 2022.

Don't Miss 381 SHARES 38.1 K SHARES 42.9 K SHARES 31.8 K SHARES

The Centre has set aside Rs 148 crore for procuring the tags, tag applicators, tablets and health cards, officials said.

It has also fixed targets for individual states to be completed within 2017.

Agency inputs