Jack Ma says the best CEO will be a ROBOT in 30 years
Chinese billionaire Jack Ma says best CEOs will be a ROBOT in 30 years


Chinese billionaire has said that the world's best CEO will be a robot within the next 30 years.

The 52-year-old founder of Alibaba - China's equivalent of eBay and the world's largest retail platform - warned that robots will bring 'far more pain than happiness' in the next three decades.

But he added that artificial intelligence will ultimately improve our everyday lives.

Scroll down for video

Self-made billionaire and China's second richest man Jack Ma (pictured) has warned that robots rule over the world's biggest companies within 30 years

Ma, who is worth £22.8 billion ($28.4 billion), said that advances in technology will render CEOs irrelevant within the next 30 years.

'In 30 years, a robot will likely be on the cover of Time Magazine as the best CEO,' Ma said in a speech over the weekend at an entrepreneurship conference in central China, according to CNN.

Robots will get the world's top jobs because they are 'quicker and more rational' than humans, he said.

He added that they would be more suitable as CEOs because they don't get overcome by their emotions, such as by getting annoyed with their competitors.

He also warned that the world is not yet prepared for the changes that will be brought around by the advent of robots.

'In the next three decades, the world will experience far more pain than happiness,' he said.

Ma, who is worth £22.8 billion ($28.4 billion), said that advances in technology will render CEOs irrelevant within the next 30 years

'Social conflicts in the next three decades will have an impact on all sorts of industries and walks of life.'

He claimed schools must teach children to be more 'creative and curious' to deal with the rise of artificial intelligence.

Ma likened the impending advent of robots to the rise of the Internet in the 90's.

He said he tried to warn people that online retailers would affect the profits of traditional businesses but was ignored.

'Fifteen years ago I gave speeches 200 or 300 times reminding everyone the internet will impact all industries, but people didn't listen because I was a nobody,' he said, according to Bloomberg.

He said society should prepare for decades of pain as the internet disrupts the economy.

His comments come as his company is starting to diversify. Alibaba has invested in everything from film production to streaming services and cloud-based computing.

But he added that artificial intelligence will ultimately improve our everyday lives.

He said specially-designed bots will help wealthy countries cope with their ageing work forces.

Ma said: 'Machines will do what human beings are incapable of doing.

'Machines will partner and cooperate with humans, rather than become mankind's biggest enemy.'