Jennifer Lopez Opens Up About Dating Alex Rodriguez on 'Ellen'
Jennifer Lopez Opens Up About Dating Alex Rodriguez on 'Ellen'
Jennifer Lopez returned to the Monday, which of course resulted in Lopez fielding questions regarding her relationship with Alex Rodriguez . Rumors of J.Lo and A-Rod dating first popped up back in March. When confronted about the relationship by DeGeneres on Monday's show, Lopez reluctantly recalled how the two kicked off their romance. After DeGeneres joked about Lopez being able to keep a "steady boyfriend," the star opened up about their beginnings. "He's a great guy," Lopez said. Their fateful run-in during a lunch of Cobb salad and tortilla soup, Lopez added, was the start of it all. "It's very simple," she said. "I was having lunch somewhere and I saw him and he passed by." Tomorrow I'm talking to @JLo and both of her twins. #Adorable A post shared by Ellen (@theellenshow) on Apr 23, 2017 at 3:52pm PDT After Lopez saw Rodriguez pass by during lunch, she went outside and tapped him on the shoulder to say hello. Later, Rodriguez—who already had Lopez's number after using her for a referral years earlier—texted her to invite her out for dinner. "I don't remember what we had for dinner, but we had a nice dinner," Lopez said. In true DeGeneres fashion, Lopez was then treated to a surprise scare. Back in March, a source told  that Lopez and Rodriguez had been dating for "a few weeks." In the weeks since, the two have popped up on Instagram together: #saturdayvibes A post shared by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo) on Apr 8, 2017 at 3:08pm PDT During a recent appearance on the , Rodriguez praised Lopez and said they were both having a great time. "She's an amazing, amazing girl, and one of the smartest human beings I've ever met and also an incredible mother," Rodriguez said.

Jennifer Lopez returned to the Ellen DeGeneres Show Monday, which of course resulted in Lopez fielding questions regarding her relationship with Alex Rodriguez. Rumors of J.Lo and A-Rod dating first popped up back in March. When confronted about the relationship by DeGeneres on Monday's show, Lopez reluctantly recalled how the two kicked off their romance.

After DeGeneres joked about Lopez being able to keep a "steady boyfriend," the Shades of Blue star opened up about their beginnings. "He's a great guy," Lopez said. Their fateful run-in during a lunch of Cobb salad and tortilla soup, Lopez added, was the start of it all. "It's very simple," she said. "I was having lunch somewhere and I saw him and he passed by."

Tomorrow I'm talking to @JLo and both of her twins. #Adorable A post shared by Ellen (@theellenshow) on Apr 23, 2017 at 3:52pm PDT

After Lopez saw Rodriguez pass by during lunch, she went outside and tapped him on the shoulder to say hello. Later, Rodriguez—who already had Lopez's number after using her for a referral years earlier—texted her to invite her out for dinner. "I don't remember what we had for dinner, but we had a nice dinner," Lopez said. In true DeGeneres fashion, Lopez was then treated to a surprise scare.

Back in March, a source told People that Lopez and Rodriguez had been dating for "a few weeks." In the weeks since, the two have popped up on Instagram together:

#saturdayvibes A post shared by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo) on Apr 8, 2017 at 3:08pm PDT

During a recent appearance on the View, Rodriguez praised Lopez and said they were both having a great time. "She's an amazing, amazing girl, and one of the smartest human beings I've ever met and also an incredible mother," Rodriguez said.