Hyderabad Woman Sold Off To Sponsor In Saudi Arabia For Rs 3 Lakh, No Police Action Yet
Hyderabad Woman Sold Off To Sponsor In Saudi Arabia For Rs 3 Lakh, No Police Action Yet
Hyderabad Woman Sold Off To Sponsor In Saudi Arabia For Rs 3 Lakh, No Police Action Yet One more Hyderabadi woman was deceived by agents. She is facing mental and physical harassment at the hands of her kafeel (sponsor) in Saudi Arabia. Salma Begum, 39, a resident of Babanagar 'C' block was allegedly sent to Saudi Arabia by two agents identified as Akram and Shafi of the same locality on January 21, 2017 on a housemaid visa. Salma Begum's daughter Sameena told TOI that her mother was cheated by Akram and Shafi. "My mother is in trouble in Saudi. She wants to return home but her Kafeel is not allowing her to get back here. I even met Akram requesting him to get my mother back, but he did nothing so far. We went to Kanchanbagh police station, but the police appear to be unmoved by the matter and has not taken any action so far,'' Sameena said. Sameena further said that she had learnt that her mother was sold to the kafeel for 3 lakh. "The torture started when she denied to a contract marriage with her Kafeel in Saudi Arabia. She however informed me sending message that she was sold by agents. so the Kafeel does not want to send her back,'' Sameena added. She alleged that despite several complaints and requests, the Kanchanbagh police have failed to take action against agents Akram and Shafi. Akram was called to the police station once. He had assured us that he would bring our mother back home by February 20, 2017, but so far she has not returned home,'' Salma Begum's daughter said. Salma has now sent an audio message to her daughter Sameena, in which, she is requesting the Indian government to bring her back to India. "I am trying all efforts to bring my mother back home. I kindly request Telangana and central governments to bring my mother back to India,'' Sameena Begum appealed. Financial woes and debts drove Salma Begum to Saudi Arabia. The GCC countries -Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and UAE - manage its "temporary" migrant workforce through the sponsorship or Kafala system. Under this system, a local citizen or local company (the kafeel) must sponsor foreign workers in order for their work visas and residency to be valid. This means that an individual's right to work and legal presence in the host country is dependent on his or her employer, rendering him or her vulnerable to exploitation.

One more Hyderabadi woman was deceived by agents. She is facing mental and physical harassment at the hands of her kafeel (sponsor) in Saudi Arabia.

Salma Begum, 39, a resident of Babanagar 'C' block was allegedly sent to Saudi Arabia by two agents identified as Akram and Shafi of the same locality on January 21, 2017 on a housemaid visa.

Representational Image

Salma Begum's daughter Sameena told TOI that her mother was cheated by Akram and Shafi. "My mother is in trouble in Saudi. She wants to return home but her Kafeel is not allowing her to get back here. I even met Akram requesting him to get my mother back, but he did nothing so far. We went to Kanchanbagh police station, but the police appear to be unmoved by the matter and has not taken any action so far,'' Sameena said.

Sameena further said that she had learnt that her mother was sold to the kafeel for 3 lakh. "The torture started when she denied to a contract marriage with her Kafeel in Saudi Arabia. She however informed me sending message that she was sold by agents. so the Kafeel does not want to send her back,'' Sameena added. She alleged that despite several complaints and requests, the Kanchanbagh police have failed to take action against agents Akram and Shafi. Akram was called to the police station once.

He had assured us that he would bring our mother back home by February 20, 2017, but so far she has not returned home,'' Salma Begum's daughter said.

Salma has now sent an audio message to her daughter Sameena, in which, she is requesting the Indian government to bring her back to India.

Representational Image

"I am trying all efforts to bring my mother back home. I kindly request Telangana and central governments to bring my mother back to India,'' Sameena Begum appealed.

Financial woes and debts drove Salma Begum to Saudi Arabia.

The GCC countries -Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and UAE - manage its "temporary" migrant workforce through the sponsorship or Kafala system. Under this system, a local citizen or local company (the kafeel) must sponsor foreign workers in order for their work visas and residency to be valid. This means that an individual's right to work and legal presence in the host country is dependent on his or her employer, rendering him or her vulnerable to exploitation.

Don't Miss 14.1 K SHARES 37.8 K SHARES 42.1 K SHARES 29.5 K SHARES 25.6 K SHARES

In most GCC states, migrants cannot leave or enter the country without their employer's permission.