US sanctions 271 Syrian government workers after chemical attack
US sanctions 271 Syrian government workers after chemical attack
Shares               The U.S. Treasury has announced sanctions against 271 employees of the Syrian government agency believed to be responsible for developing chemical weapons like those used in an attack on dozens of civilians in the country earlier this month. "These 271 SSRC employees have expertise in chemistry and related disciplines and/or have worked in support of SSRC’s chemical weapons program since at least 2012," the Treasury said in a statement. The attack on April 4 in the village of Khan Sheikhoun, Syria killed more than 80 people and prompted a U.S. missile strike on the air base linked to the attack. "The United States is sending a strong message with this action that we will not tolerate the use of chemical weapons by any actor and we intend to hold the Assad regime accountable for its unacceptable behavior," the statement from the Treasury said.  Shares                  US sanctions 271 Syrian government workers after chemical attack   ANALYSIS: How Trump accomplished so little yet so much in first 100 days   New Orleans takes down white supremacist monument   Aaron Hernandez's family attends private funeral in Connecticut   Chinese pressure on N. Korea 'working,' Haley says   US general in Afghanistan suggests Russia arming the Taliban   Lawyer: Doctor dragged from flight plans to file lawsuit   Russia investigations on the Hill: Where things stand   Pence cites 'challenging times' for troops in American Samoa   3 takeaways from Sheryl Sandberg's new book on grief   US astronaut Peggy Whitson breaks American spaceflight record   Beloved 600-year-old white oak tree takes final bow   Power Ranger window washers thrill kid patients at hospital   4-year-old boy has meltdown over haircut before realizing it will grow back   5 dates to fly for cheaper summer airfare   Soccer jerseys show off family's co-parenting skills   Crafty corgi owners transform retro TV into chic dog bed   Germany sees new rise in far-right offenses, hate crimes   Russia vows to get Ukrainian separatists to comply with deal   Airstrike kills 8 family members in northern Syria   Israel indicts hacker linked to threats on US Jewish centers   Afghan army chief, defense minister resign following attack   Militants ambush convoy with off-duty Iraq soldiers, kill 10   Inspired by own family, Kentucky gov. tackles foster system   Aaron Hernandez's Connecticut hometown prepares for funeral   Bloomberg to world leaders: Ignore Trump on climate   Jewish war veterans bemoan stalling of Israel's WWII museum   Untested, undefinable Macron nears pinnacle of French power   French stocks soar to near-decade highs as Macron tops poll   France's choice: European globalism or populist nationalism   Tennessee teen's sister on kidnapping, 'roller coaster' of emotions   Father of Tennessee teen: She 'may not be exactly' the person she was before alleged abduction   'Pure joy' but concern, too, for family of formerly missing Tenn. student   'Happy Days' star Moran likely died from cancer   Russian foreign minister: No proof of persecution of gay men   Siren wails as Israel marks annual Holocaust Remembrance Day   Caitlyn Jenner on ex Kris' reaction to her new memoir   Serena Williams pens letter to future baby: 'You taught me the true meaning of serenity and peace'

The U.S. Treasury has announced sanctions against 271 employees of the Syrian government agency believed to be responsible for developing chemical weapons like those used in an attack on dozens of civilians in the country earlier this month.

"These 271 SSRC employees have expertise in chemistry and related disciplines and/or have worked in support of SSRC’s chemical weapons program since at least 2012," the Treasury said in a statement.

The attack on April 4 in the village of Khan Sheikhoun, Syria killed more than 80 people and prompted a U.S. missile strike on the air base linked to the attack.

"The United States is sending a strong message with this action that we will not tolerate the use of chemical weapons by any actor and we intend to hold the Assad regime accountable for its unacceptable behavior," the statement from the Treasury said.

This is a breaking news story and will be updated. Please check back for the latest.