Arkansas prepares for first double execution in US since 2000
Arkansas prepares for first double execution in US since 2000
Arkansas Arkansas prepares for first double execution in US since 2000 This combination of undated file photos provided by the Arkansas Department of Correction shows death-row inmates Jack Jones, left, and Marcel Williams.
	                        
	                        	 (Arkansas Department of Correction/File) Two condemned killers in Arkansas are set to die Monday in the first double execution in the United States since 2000 -- unless they get last-minute reprieves. Executions for Jack Jones and Marcel Williams are set for Monday evening; they would be the second and third in Arkansas this month. The state set an aggressive plan to execute several inmates before one of its lethal injection drugs expires at the end of April. Arkansas initially planned eight executions over 11 days, which would have been the most by a state in such a short period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. However, courts have blocked four of the eight. The last state to put more than one inmate to death on the same day was Texas, which executed two killers in August 2000, The Associated Press reported. Both Arkansas inmates, convicted of rape and murder, have asked the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals to intervene, claiming the lethal injection drug midazolam -- combined with their health problems  -- could lead to botched executions, Fox 16 reported . Williams was sent to death row for the 1994 rape and killing of 22-year-old Stacy Errickson, whom he kidnapped from a gas station in central Arkansas. Williams abducted and raped two other women in the days before he was arrested in Errickson's death, investigators said. Williams admitted responsibility to the state Parole Board last month. "I wish I could take it back, but I can't," Williams told the board. Jones got the death penalty for the 1995 rape and killing of Mary Phillips. He strangled her with the cord to a coffee pot. In a letter earlier this month, Jones said he was ready to be killed by the state. "I forgive my executioners; somebody has to do it," wrote Jones, who had a leg amputated in prison because of diabetes and uses a wheelchair. The letter, which his attorney read aloud at his clemency hearing, went on to say: "I shall not ask to be forgiven, for I haven't the right." The state killed Ledell Lee last week in the state's first use of capital punishment since 2005. State officials said the executions needed to be carried out before its supply of the sedative midazolam expires on April 30. A federal judge on Friday rejected requests from Jones and Williams to stop their executions over their health concerns. Two federal judges ruled against the inmates in separate cases Sunday. One denied a stay of execution to Williams, saying that the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals has jurisdiction in the case. Another federal judge denied the inmates' request for changes to the rules for witnesses to view the executions. Lawyers for Jones say he suffers from diabetes and is on insulin, has high blood pressure, neuropathy and had one leg amputated below the knee. He is on heavy doses of drugs they say could prevent the lethal injection drug midazolam from working and lead to a "tortuous death." Williams' lawyers say he weighs 400 pounds and it will be difficult to find a vein for lethal injunction, so the drugs are unlikely to work as intended.

Two condemned killers in Arkansas are set to die Monday in the first double execution in the United States since 2000 -- unless they get last-minute reprieves.

Executions for Jack Jones and Marcel Williams are set for Monday evening; they would be the second and third in Arkansas this month. The state set an aggressive plan to execute several inmates before one of its lethal injection drugs expires at the end of April.

EX-SOLDIER'S PAROLE FOR LOUISIANA MURDER YANKED AT LAST MINUTE

Arkansas initially planned eight executions over 11 days, which would have been the most by a state in such a short period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. However, courts have blocked four of the eight.

The last state to put more than one inmate to death on the same day was Texas, which executed two killers in August 2000, The Associated Press reported.

WOMAN WHOSE 10-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER WAS KILLED IN 1999 LOSES SECOND DAUGHTER TO MURDER

Both Arkansas inmates, convicted of rape and murder, have asked the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals to intervene, claiming the lethal injection drug midazolam -- combined with their health problems -- could lead to botched executions, Fox 16 reported.

Williams was sent to death row for the 1994 rape and killing of 22-year-old Stacy Errickson, whom he kidnapped from a gas station in central Arkansas.

Williams abducted and raped two other women in the days before he was arrested in Errickson's death, investigators said. Williams admitted responsibility to the state Parole Board last month.

"I wish I could take it back, but I can't," Williams told the board.

Jones got the death penalty for the 1995 rape and killing of Mary Phillips. He strangled her with the cord to a coffee pot.

In a letter earlier this month, Jones said he was ready to be killed by the state.

"I forgive my executioners; somebody has to do it," wrote Jones, who had a leg amputated in prison because of diabetes and uses a wheelchair.

The letter, which his attorney read aloud at his clemency hearing, went on to say: "I shall not ask to be forgiven, for I haven't the right."

The state killed Ledell Lee last week in the state's first use of capital punishment since 2005. State officials said the executions needed to be carried out before its supply of the sedative midazolam expires on April 30.

A federal judge on Friday rejected requests from Jones and Williams to stop their executions over their health concerns. Two federal judges ruled against the inmates in separate cases Sunday. One denied a stay of execution to Williams, saying that the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals has jurisdiction in the case. Another federal judge denied the inmates' request for changes to the rules for witnesses to view the executions.

Lawyers for Jones say he suffers from diabetes and is on insulin, has high blood pressure, neuropathy and had one leg amputated below the knee. He is on heavy doses of drugs they say could prevent the lethal injection drug midazolam from working and lead to a "tortuous death."

Williams' lawyers say he weighs 400 pounds and it will be difficult to find a vein for lethal injunction, so the drugs are unlikely to work as intended.

Click for more from Fox 16.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.