Anzac Day: The modern face of the military



Anzac Day: The modern face of the military

Posted

The image of the Aussie digger fighting in the trenches of Europe is etched in the national consciousness.

But what of the men and women who make up the modern day military?

Meet the Navy officer who intercepted boats coming to Australia; the Army sergeant who is trying to maintain a balanced home life; and the Air Force flight lieutenant who is proving reservists are vital to the team.

The Navy thrill-seeker

Peter Wong was sick of the office life.

After a string of monotonous jobs that made for an uninspiring resume — retail, real estate, commerce — the then 22-year-old felt his life had barely started.

"I didn't want my four walls, that's what it was. I wanted adventure," he said.

"I went, 'You know what? I'm going to go and do something with my life.'"

So he applied for the Navy, with expectations of travel and adventure on the high seas.

The dream was still fresh in his mind when planes hit the twin towers in New York in 2001 and set Australia's military course spinning in a new direction.

"A lot of my friends ... said, 'Aren't you going to withdraw your application now?' But that didn't happen."

"My deployments to Afghanistan and the Middle East, they were all nominations by myself.

"Initially I didn't know what adventure I wanted, but I knew I wanted something out there.

"I was willing. I was like a sponge. I wanted everything."

Fast forward 15 years and Petty Officer Wong — now in a clerical role — has seen more adventure than perhaps he bargained for. He has lived in six Australian states and completed numerous deployments overseas.

He has stood atop the mast 33 feet above the deck of the Young Endeavour as gale winds and wild seas whirled around.

"The sway, the danger, it was like being in a movie, that's how awesome it was."

He was also on the frontline for Operation Sovereign Borders, and he was aboard HMAS Ballarat as it intercepted boats filled with people making their way to Australia.

"I guess the most intense experience for me during that particular trip was that I personally had to process 750 different people as they came aboard HMAS Ballarat over the course of a month," he said.

"That was quite intense as I had personal interaction with each person."

But now life is slowing down.

His partner wants him on solid land for a while and he is looking to transition out of the military and back into studying.

"I'll have to find that adventure in other things such as travel outside of the Defence Force," he said.

"It's coming along quite nicely.

"I'm a little bit of a different person to that 22-year-old now, I've had my fill of adventures."

He pauses for a moment after saying that, then adds: "There's always room for more, isn't there?"

The Army family man

At the Kokoda trail in Papua New Guinea stand four pillars with the words "courage, endurance, mateship, sacrifice" etched on them.

For the modern day soldier you could also add the word "balance".

Sergeant Hayden Mance is discovering just how important this fifth attribute is as his young family grows tired of moving and is looking for a more settled life.

"The biggest challenge would be the constant movement," he said.

"I think to begin with [my wife] quite enjoyed it. It's exciting to begin with.

"But now we're both getting a little bit older and we've got kids ... it's getting to the point where rather than it being all focussed on my career it's also trying to share the love and also focus on her career as well."

Sergeant Mance joined the Army straight out of high school after his friend's dad sold him on the benefits, and has since been deployed to Afghanistan twice.

These postings have meant missing some big moments at home — like the first birthdays of both his sons.

"It was disappointing ... I thought, this sucks, but it's all part and parcel or being a defence member," he said.

"Defence has always come first and look, I think that's probably the thing that's become a bit more of a challenge with the family and it sort of gets more difficult as the kids are getting older."

Sergeant Mance is currently based in Melbourne and manages the radio equipment used in combat overseas.

And while he would take another deployment to the Middle East — "At the end of the day that's why we all sign up, to do our job" — Sergeant Mance has seen what happens to those who neglect the home front.

"There's so many guys who spent a lot of time in defence and they are probably on their second or third marriage," he said.

"I'm obviously scared of falling down that path and so I'm trying to get that balance right."

So is it worth the stress that comes from such a career?

"I really enjoy my job ... supporting the war-fighter, it's very rewarding," he said.

"It's what we signed up to do."

The Air Force reservist

Kate Kennedy was an outsider looking in.

As a public servant in the Department of Defence she was intimately aware of what military personnel went through, but she wasn't part of the club.

"I've just worked alongside some amazing, inspirational people and I could see the bonds and I could see the calibre of the people in uniform and I really wanted to be part of that," she said.

"I wanted to be part of that team. I wanted to put the uniform on and go out and do some really exciting adventurous things as well."

So nine years ago she applied to join the Reserves, but put those plans on the backburner when her first child came along.

A few years later, the same thing.

Finally, three years ago the timing was right.

Now, she is officially a flight lieutenant in the Royal Australian Air Force.

"Reservists come in all shapes and forms," Flight Lieutenant Kennedy said.

"So on deployment, when I was in the Middle East last year, at least a third of the people I worked with, in very senior positions as well, were reservists."

The ADF currently has more than 2,000 people on deployment around the world and Flight Lieutenant Kennedy said there appeared to be a growing reliance on reserves.

This, she believes, has led to a change in culture.

"There's been a real stigma with reservists, culturally, in the past, but that's not the case now," she said.

"I think people are really seeing what we bring to the table and value our presence and our work ethic as well.

"I think people appreciate the fact that we already have jobs and we give up time in our jobs or take on responsibilities in addition to our full-time day jobs to support or work for the military."

And the sacrifice of reservists is no less real.

When Flight Lieutenant Kennedy was deployed to the Middle East last year, she had to say goodbye to her two kids for six-and-a-half months. And spending Mother's Day overseas was "heartbreaking".

"I'd say we probably play a more important role now than we have traditionally," she said.

"I think people appreciate the value of reservists more these days because there are so many of us and we bring in additional capability."

Topics: anzac-day, unrest-conflict-and-war, defence-forces, australia