Wedding tattoo trend see loved-up newlyweds getting inked
New trend for wedding tattoos see loved-up newlyweds getting inked


Loved up couples are going to the chapel...and then straight to the tattoo parlour, as the trend for getting etched after walking down the aisle grows.

From matching diamond tattoos on ring fingers to inked drawings of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, sharing an etching with your betrothed is hot to trot.

Elsewhere, other smitten souls have had the date of their nuptials carved into their skin and even matching 'I do' tattoos writ large on their biceps.

Scroll down for video

I'll be Albert to your Victoria! Canadian @Salina.banana shared this snap of her and her betrothed's very regal tattoos

Hear them roar! The jungle is the inspiration behind this matching pair

Love is a cartoon character: These pairings opted for Minnie and Mickey outlines, while another twosome went for Superman and Wonder Woman

We're really s-ear-ious about each other: This duo show their dedication with behind the ear markings

With this tattoo, I thee wed: A pair of squiggles clearly mean something here

While a matching ring might once have sufficed, loved-up pairings are signalling their new lives together by marking their relationship in permanent ink.

And who to thank? The A-listers, of course. When Beyoncé wed Jay-Z in 2008, the pair had roman numerals - IV - inked onto their ring fingers.

While Cheryl went under the tattooist's pen after her wedding to footballer Ashley Cole in 2006, having a lavish 'Mrs C' scribed on the back of her neck, the new mum acts as a warning to others thinking of getting a wedding-related tattoo. The couple split in 2010 after Mr Cole had a string of affairs.

And although not quite a tattoo, Countryfile presenter Ellie last week revealed her dedication to her partner Matt Goodman by showing off 10 circular scars running along her left forearm.

It's official - our biceps say so! This romantic pair show off their matching 'I do' tattoos

Check-mate! A couple declare they are each other's king and queen. While another twosome show off their matching Mr and Mrs tattoos

Diamonds are forever, right? A between the knuckle jewel etching does the job here

The 39-year-old's extreme body art represents the number of years she had been with the Cotswolds doctor, with whom she has three children, at the time of the procedure.

Other popular picks when it comes to body art for newlyweds includes cartoon characters, with Disney's love match Mickey and Minnie Mouse featuring frequently on Instagram.

A colourful animated Wonder Woman and Superman also made the cut for one couple.

In 2015, a Brisbane couple hired a tattoo artist for their wedding - and found 15 of their guests willing to join in and have their own etchings done.

Marlee and Jordan Follman decided to tie the knot after five years together and set out to start their life as husband and wife in a manner distinctly their own, leaving their mark on each other - and their wedding guests.

We'll always be true...we've got it writ large: Are this couple tempting fate?

The thigh's the limit when it comes to our devotion: This couple have had the phrase 'I could conquer the world with one hand as long as you are holding the other' written on their skin

Marlee enlisted the services of one of her good friends, Luke Bishop, who owns and operates Bishop's Mobile Tattooing, with the inspiration for allowing their guests to join in the inking.

'When we approached him with the idea he thought it was awesome, and drew a flash sheet of 'love' images people could select from to get tattooed,' Marlee said at the time.

Love is a tattoo made for two (and your wedding guests), it seems.