New antibiotic could cure hospital-acquired pneumonia
A new antibiotic could cure hospital-acquired pneumonia


Scientists have successfully developed the first new class of antibiotics in 40 years, providing a vital weapon in the war on superbugs.

Initial trials on the new drug suggest it has a 91 per cent success rate against a deadly bacteria which causes severe pneumonia.

The treatment, called Murepavadin, targets a drug-resistant infection called Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

Hospital-acquired pneumonia is highly dangerous, with a 20 to 50 per cent death rate

The infection was included on a World Health Organisation list of 12 superbugs considered to be ‘priority pathogens’ - the antibiotic-resistant bacteria which pose the greatest threat to human health.

Pseudomonas aeruginosa commonly causes hospital-acquired pneumonia, a disease with a death rate of up to 50 per cent.

In a phase-one trial, only 9 per cent of patients treated with Murepavadin died within 28 days, with 91 per cent cured.

The trial was an initial pilot study, involving only 12 patients, but experts last night said it was a vital first step and revealed they have already moved onto phase-two testing and hope to start final phase-three trials by the end of the year.

Study leader Professor Antoni Torres, of the Respiratory Institute Hospital Clinic in Barcelona, said: ‘Antibiotic resistance is one the most serious health threats of our time with significant global implications.

‘New treatment options are urgently needed.’

Presenting his findings at the European Congress of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases in Austria, he said: ‘Today’s announcement that Murepavadin has shown positive benefits in the trials offers hope for the management of this challenging patient group.’

Polyphor, the Swiss company developing the drug, in February was given a £1.8million research grant by the Wellcome Trust, specifically for its work on antibiotics.

Murepavadin is the first in a class of Outer Membrane Protein Targeting Antibiotics - or OMPTA - which targets bacteria in a different way to traditional drugs.

Antibiotic resistance - the process by which bacteria evolve to fight off drugs - is rapidly becoming seen as the biggest crisis facing modern medicine.

More than 10million people a year could be killed by superbugs within a generation if the problem is not tackled, experts have warned.

The more existing antibiotics are used the more resistant bacteria become to them.

Drug resistance is a big problem with current treatments, leaving sufferers with few options

Superbugs are already breeding at a rapid rate, with increasing numbers of germs evolving to become untreatable with what were previously effective drugs.

But doctors have had little choice because no new class of antibiotic has been discovered for a generation.

Dr Ignacio Martin-Loeches, an intensive care consultant at St James’ Hospital in Dublin, last night welcomed the findings.

He said: ‘Pseudomonas aeruginosa represents a significant threat to the most vulnerable hospital patients, including intensive care patients, those with depleted immune systems such as those with cancer, people with severe burns and premature babies in neonatal units.

‘Treatment options are limited and so this new class of antibiotics is desperately needed.’

Dr Glenn Dale of Polyphor said: ‘Murepavadin’s single pathogen focus prevents a build-up of resistance against other pathogens, which is a common problem with antibiotics.

‘Today’s findings show that our proposed dose of Murepavidin could be a promising new antimicrobial.

‘This year, we expect Murepavadin to enter Phase III trials and take another step to bring it to patients.’