Love Parade Tragedy: German Court Orders Trial Over 2010 Festival Deaths
Love Parade Tragedy: German Court Orders Trial Over 2010 Festival Deaths
Jennifer Lopez Set to Perform at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Announces 'Superstar Mano a Mano: Nicky Jam & J Balvin' Panel 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Announces 'Latinx Activism' Maluma Announced as First 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Panelist Love Parade Tragedy: German Court Orders Trial Over 2010 Festival Deaths  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  A German court said Monday that 10 people indicted over a deadly mass panic at the Love Parade danceÂ music festival in 2010 must stand trial, overturning a lower court's decision last year. Twenty-one people died on July 24, 2010, in a crush in a packed tunnel that was the sole access point to the music event in Duisburg, in western Germany. More than 500 people were also injured. The victims included people from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and the Netherlands. Prosecutors indicted four employees of the event's organizers and six city workers on charges including involuntary manslaughter and bodily harm. They were accused of serious planning failures and failing to monitor security properly.  Last year, the Duisburg state court concluded there wasn't a sufficiently strong case to bring to trial. However, an appeals court in Duesseldorf said Monday there is a "sufficient probability" of convictions. It said the lower court had set "overly high demands" of the chances of conviction in making its decision. The Duesseldorf ordered a trial by a different panel of judges in Duisburg. It will be up to the Duisburg court to set dates for the proceedings.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

A memorial plate for the victims of the 2010 Love Parade disaster is pictured at the accident site on July 23, 2015 in Duisburg, western Germany.

A German court said Monday that 10 people indicted over a deadly mass panic at the Love Parade danceÂ music festival in 2010 must stand trial, overturning a lower court's decision last year.

Twenty-one people died on July 24, 2010, in a crush in a packed tunnel that was the sole access point to the music event in Duisburg, in western Germany.

More than 500 people were also injured. The victims included people from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and the Netherlands.

Prosecutors indicted four employees of the event's organizers and six city workers on charges including involuntary manslaughter and bodily harm. They were accused of serious planning failures and failing to monitor security properly.

Last year, the Duisburg state court concluded there wasn't a sufficiently strong case to bring to trial.

However, an appeals court in Duesseldorf said Monday there is a "sufficient probability" of convictions. It said the lower court had set "overly high demands" of the chances of conviction in making its decision.

The Duesseldorf ordered a trial by a different panel of judges in Duisburg. It will be up to the Duisburg court to set dates for the proceedings.