French election: Marine Le Pen stands down from National Front party ahead of May 7 vote



French election: Marine Le Pen stands down from National Front party ahead of May 7 vote

Posted

Far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has shocked France by announcing she is stepping down as leader of her party.

Key points: It is believed Le Pen is trying to broaden her appeal beyond the party's right-wing base

Opinion polls have consistently put rival Emmanuel Macron ahead for the presidency

Le Pen is expected to ruthlessly attack Macron's lack of experience in coming days

Ms Le Pen is still running for president on May 7, but is in the short term at least distancing herself from the National Front party (NF) founded by her father in 1972.

"I have always considered that the president of the republic is the president of all French people," the 48-year-old told French television.

"Now is the moment to move from words to action and it is the reason why it seemed essential to me to take leave from the presidency of the National Front."

The move is seen as an attempt by Ms Le Pen to broaden the appeal of her campaign beyond the far-right base of her party.

One opinion poll has the En Marche! candidate Emmanuel Macron ahead of his rival by 64-36, while another poll is sitting at 62-38.

Ms Le Pen has less than two weeks to turn those figures around.

Macron 'weak' on important subjects: Le Pen

On the morning of her shock announcement, Ms Le Pen gave some clues on the kind of strategy she will be pursuing in this turbo-charged final fortnight of campaigning.

Ms Le Pen and her supporters will ruthlessly attack the 39-year-old Mr Macron over his lack of experience and his background as a merchant banker, while questioning his patriotism and his capacity to deal with the threat of terrorism.

As she toured Henin-Beaumont, a former Socialist stronghold that these days supports the National Front, Ms Le Pen ramped up the attacks on Macron's character.

"I'm on the ground to meet the French people to draw their attention to important subjects, including Islamist terrorism, on which Mr Macron is, to say the least, weak," she said.

Florian Philippot, Ms Le Pen's closest adviser and the man credited with softening the National Front's image and making it more electable, also took aim at Mr Macron.

"Emmanuel is not a patriot," he told French TV.

"He sold off national companies. He criticised French culture."

National Front 'a danger to democracy': poll

Mr Philippot, who like En Marche!'s leader is a graduate of the exclusive finishing school for France's political class, the Ecole Nationale d'Administration, likes to portray Mr Macron as an elitist.

"Macron was there with all his showbiz friends," Mr Philippot said in reference to an En Marche! after party on Sunday at a Parisian brasserie.

"He is way too arrogant and sure of himself."

Marine Le Pen says the final round of the presidential election will be a referendum on "uncontrolled globalisation".

She has previously said "wild globalisation has benefited some, but it's been a catastrophe for most".

Given Mr Macron spent four years earning big money as a merchant banker in mergers and acquisitions, his background will become a further target for Ms Le Pen's attacks in the next fortnight.

Whether her campaign will work is another question.

A February poll found that 58 per cent of French people thought that the National Front was a danger to democracy — that might explain her shock decision.

There are a lot of voters in France who could never bring themselves to vote for the National Front or Marine Le Pen no matter what weaknesses were exposed in a rival candidate.

Topics: world-politics, government-and-politics, elections, france