Anzac Day: Tasmanians told war should be 'last resort' as young flock to service



Anzac Day: Tasmanians told war should be 'last resort' as young flock to service

Updated

Anzac Day commemorations should serve to remind Australians of the cost of war, and encourage society to "to seek wherever possible to avoid war and violence", a Hobart dawn service has been told.

Thousands walked quietly in the darkness to gather at the Hobart Cenotaph as ceremonies to mark the 102nd anniversary of the landing of Australian and New Zealand troops at Gallipoli rang out across Australia.

Reverend Richard Humphrey, Anglican Dean of Hobart, told those assembled: "We remember not just to recall the past, but to change our present; we remember the carnage and the cost.

"In this world, where injustice and evil seem to flourish, there will be times when war is justified as right, but remembering the cost will encourage us to see it as the last resort."

Hobart student Adelaide Robinson addressed the crowd and said she had little comprehension of the "true meaning" of Anzac Day when she first attended:

"Several years ago, when I attended my first dawn service, I stood overshadowed by those around me unaware of the true meaning of why I was here and why it was so quiet.

"Yet at the sound of the bugle, I reflected and felt a sense of grief, which was quickly overcome with the feeling of gratitude created through the recognition of the actions, virtues and courage of people I had never met."

"As a teenager who has only known the comforts of home, it is extremely hard to imagine the countless young Australians that answered the call and left the luxuries and safety of home to find themselves in the heat of battle.

"Be they, the beaches of Turkey, the trenches of France the deserts of the Middle East, the jungles of New Guinea and Vietnam or the mountains of Afghanistan and whilst here in Hobart we can feel so removed from war I was curious to find out what my own family had been through during this time.

'Recognise survivors' before it's too late

Launceston RSL sub-branch president Graham Barnett said he had thought the rain would keep numbers around 5,000.

"I looked at the weather and I could hear the rain coming all night," he said.

As the service dispersed, he guessed the crowd at between 8,500 and 9,000.

Mr Barnett praised the number of young people at the service.

"To see the young kids come is just fantastic, and it just means that what everybody has done in the past and what they're currently doing. [Anzac Day is] not going to die; our country is in great shape," he said.

During the service, Riverside High School student Tom Moreton paid tribute to those who fought at the Siege of Tobruk.

"The Siege of Tobruk and the happenings on the Libyan North Coast, it's a large part of Australia's war effort in World War II," he said.

"There's not many survivors left in Australia; I figured now is the time for them to be recognised.

"My great granddad served in the British Navy and my great uncle was in the Royal Australian Navy.

"The fact that I can be here speaking and honouring them and their service is a big deal for me."

Topics: history, world-war-2, world-war-1, hobart-7000

First posted