Chinese pressure on North Korea 'working,' UN Ambassador Nikki Haley says
Haley tells N. Korea, 'We don’t want war, so don't start one'
Shares               North Korea is trying to show strength at home by detaining another U.S. citizen, but overall, Chinese pressure on the regime is "working," U.S. Ambassador to the U.N.  Nikki Haley said this morning. "I think that North Korea's been playing games from the very beginning," Haley said today on ABC News' " Good Morning America ." "What we're seeing is that Kim Jong Un is trying to really show his strength to the people of North Korea, whether it's just with all of these threats or what he's trying to do in terms of talking in terms of trying to start a war. And what we've said is we don't want war, so don't start one." Tony Kim, a U.S. citizen and professor, was detained in North Korea on Saturday while trying to leave the country with his wife. Haley said the United States is going to work with China to negotiate his release. Kim is at least the third U.S. citizen now detained in North Korea. She added that China has "shown genuine concern" in regard to rising tensions with North Korea after Pyongyang tested another missile earlier this month. "I think, really, the power has been through China. They have shown genuine concern," she said. "I think that they are trying to put the pressure on North Korea, and I think it's working." Chinese state media reported that President Trump had a phone call with Chinese President Xi Jinping today in which Xi urged restraint in dealing with North Korea. Trump has pressured China to increase its economic pressure on the North Korean regime. China has proposed that the United States suspend military exercises with South Korea in exchange for North Korea's halting its nuclear program , a proposal Haley strongly rejected. "We're not going to do that," she said, adding that the United States will protect South Korea. "What we can say is South Korea has been an ally from the very beginning. We want to protect them, just as we're protecting ourselves, and that's what we said we were going to do — was we were going to have the backs of our allies and we were going to call out our adversaries," Haley said. Asked about how Trump has modified campaign positions since entering office, Haley responded, "I think it's changing with the times. I mean, the times that we're dealing with right now, we're seeing some aggression from some bad actors, we're seeing the need for strength with our allies, and we're seeing the need that we have to show force when we have to show force. And I think what we've seen the president do is say that he's not afraid to make a decision, he's not afraid to act, and he's going to change with the circumstances." Trump will meet with Haley and the ambassadors of the other 14 members of the U.N. Security Council at the White House later today.  Shares                  Haley tells N. Korea, 'We don’t want war, so don't start one'   Voters grade President Trump as he nears 100 days in office   Trump promise tracker: Where his pledges stand   New Orleans is latest place in South knocking down monuments to the Confederacy   Obama avoids Trump in 1st public remarks since leaving office   WH press secretary defends Trump's 'significant' work in 100 days   Trump to sign executive orders on offshore drilling, Veterans Affairs this week   The Note: Mad dash to day 100   Russia investigations on the Hill: Where things stand   Ivanka Trump makes debut foreign trip   What to expect for President Trump's last week of his first 100 days   ANALYSIS: How Trump accomplished so little yet so much in first 100 days   US judge temporarily blocks 2nd Arkansas execution   Bill O'Reilly, 'sad' over firing, returns to podcast   US sanctions 271 Syrian government workers after chemical attack   US astronaut Peggy Whitson breaks American spaceflight record   3 takeaways from Sheryl Sandberg's new book on grief   Beloved 600-year-old white oak tree takes final bow   Power Ranger window washers thrill kid patients at hospital   4-year-old boy has meltdown over haircut before realizing it will grow back   5 dates to fly for cheaper summer airfare   Soccer jerseys show off family's co-parenting skills

North Korea is trying to show strength at home by detaining another U.S. citizen, but overall, Chinese pressure on the regime is "working," U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley said this morning.

"I think that North Korea's been playing games from the very beginning," Haley said today on ABC News' "Good Morning America."

"What we're seeing is that Kim Jong Un is trying to really show his strength to the people of North Korea, whether it's just with all of these threats or what he's trying to do in terms of talking in terms of trying to start a war. And what we've said is we don't want war, so don't start one."

Tony Kim, a U.S. citizen and professor, was detained in North Korea on Saturday while trying to leave the country with his wife.

Haley said the United States is going to work with China to negotiate his release. Kim is at least the third U.S. citizen now detained in North Korea.

She added that China has "shown genuine concern" in regard to rising tensions with North Korea after Pyongyang tested another missile earlier this month.

"I think, really, the power has been through China. They have shown genuine concern," she said. "I think that they are trying to put the pressure on North Korea, and I think it's working."

Chinese state media reported that President Trump had a phone call with Chinese President Xi Jinping today in which Xi urged restraint in dealing with North Korea. Trump has pressured China to increase its economic pressure on the North Korean regime.

China has proposed that the United States suspend military exercises with South Korea in exchange for North Korea's halting its nuclear program, a proposal Haley strongly rejected.

"We're not going to do that," she said, adding that the United States will protect South Korea.

"What we can say is South Korea has been an ally from the very beginning. We want to protect them, just as we're protecting ourselves, and that's what we said we were going to do — was we were going to have the backs of our allies and we were going to call out our adversaries," Haley said.

Asked about how Trump has modified campaign positions since entering office, Haley responded, "I think it's changing with the times. I mean, the times that we're dealing with right now, we're seeing some aggression from some bad actors, we're seeing the need for strength with our allies, and we're seeing the need that we have to show force when we have to show force. And I think what we've seen the president do is say that he's not afraid to make a decision, he's not afraid to act, and he's going to change with the circumstances."

Trump will meet with Haley and the ambassadors of the other 14 members of the U.N. Security Council at the White House later today.