Astronaut Peggy Whitson breaks US space record, gets call from Donald Trump



Astronaut Peggy Whitson breaks US space record, gets call from Donald Trump

Posted

Astronaut Peggy Whitson has broken the US record for the most time in space and talked up a mission to Mars during a congratulatory call from President Donald Trump.

Key points: Peggy Whitson passes previous record of 534 days, two hours and 48 minutes

Ms Whitson describes record as "huge honour"

Donald Trump says work on Mars mission needs to speed up

The International Space Station's commander surpassed the record of 534 days, two hours and 48 minutes for most accumulated time in space by an American.

"This is a very special day in the glorious history of American spaceflight," Mr Trump said.

Ms Whitson said it was "a huge honour" to break such a record.

She said "it's an exciting time" as NASA prepares for human expeditions to Mars in the 2030s, included in new legislation signed by Mr Trump last month.

She called the space station "a key bridge" between living on Earth and traveling into deep space, and she singled out the station's recycling system that transforms astronauts' urine into drinking water.

"It's really not as bad as it sounds," she assured the President.

"Well, that's good, I'm glad to hear that," he replied. "Better you than me."

Ms Whitson was already the world's most experienced spacewoman and female spacewalker and, at 57, the oldest woman in space.

By the time she returns to Earth in September, she will have logged 666 days in orbit over three flights.

The world record — 879 days — is held by Russian Gennady Padalka.

Ms Whitson broke the NASA cumulative record set last year by astronaut Jeffrey Williams; Scott Kelly holds the US record for consecutive days in space — 340.

Ms Whitson is also the first woman to command the space station twice and the only woman to have led NASA's astronaut corps.

Mars mission in focus

NASA astronaut Jack Fischer, who arrived at the space station last week and took part in Monday's call, said the space station is "by far the best example of international cooperation".

Ms Whitson told the President that spaceflight takes a lot of time and money, so getting to Mars will require collaboration from other countries to succeed.

NASA is building the hardware right now to test a new rocket that will carry astronauts farther from Earth than ever before, she said.

"Well, we want to try and do it during my first term or, at worst, during my second term, so we'll have to speed that up a little bit, OK?" Mr Trump replied.

"We'll do our best," Ms Whitson said.

The debut of the mega rocket is still more than a year away — at least.

The date will depend on whether astronauts are on board for the test flight, which could hoist the new Orion capsule to the vicinity of the moon.

AP

Topics: spacecraft, space-exploration, astronomy-space, science-and-technology, united-states