Anzac Day: Large crowds, boosted police presence expected at Queensland services



Anzac Day: Large crowds, boosted police presence expected at Queensland services

Updated

Ex-service personnel from East Timor and India are marching in Brisbane's Anzac Day parade for the first time, with thousands of people from across the state turning out this morning to commemorate those who served the country and sacrificed their lives.

More than 100,000 Australians have died in conflict, including the 8,700 during the Anzac landings at Gallipoli, with the public marking its 102nd anniversary.

Returned Services League Queensland secretary Scott Denner said attendance numbers have been increasing steadily in the state over the past 15 years.

"It has been really encouraging to see how many Queenslanders turn out to remember, reflect and support veterans and current service people through Queensland," Mr Denner said.

"Anzac Day provides an opportunity to say thank you to those who have served and also to say thank you to the families who are often forgotten on Anzac Day and the sacrifice that they make is often not very well understood."

"Don't be afraid to approach an ex-service person, ask them about their service, they're always willing to talk and say thank you to them and their family for their service to the nation."

Mr Denner said the majority of veterans marching would be from more recent conflicts including Vietnam, East Timor, Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as peace keeping operations.

It is the first time an East Timor contingent will be marching in Brisbane.

"During World War II the East Timorese community provided fantastic support to Australian forces who were fighting the Japanese in East Timor and in fact many of the East Timorese lost their lives supporting those Australian forces, so this is an opportunity to thank that small country," Mr Denner said.

It is also the first time an Indian contingent will be marching in Brisbane.

Organiser Dr Braj Raj Pande said 21 ex-service personnel would take part in the parade.

He said 15,000 Indians were involved in WWI.

"Unfortunately because of whatever reason it hasn't received the importance in the history it deserves," he said.

"We want to celebrate and acknowledge the sacrifice of those men."

Tens of thousands turn out to Currumbin, Townsville

At least 15,000 have packed Townsville's Strand for this year's Anzac Day commemorations, with the north Queensland city home to one of Australia's largest Defence bases.

The turn out was so large, the crowd spilled out onto the street and onto a nearby hill.

Colonel Damian Hill said Anzac Day paid tribute to veterans from recent conflicts as well as Lt Michael Fussell, who was killed in action in Afghanistan.

He said it was the only occasion in Australia where there were more people in attendance than at sporting matches.

"It's an incredible part of the Australian identity," he said.

On the Gold Coast about 10,000 lined Currumbin's beach and streets for the dawn service, including former prime minister Tony Abbott.

Twelve mounted horsemen dressed in Anzac uniforms featured in this year's parade.

It is a special dedication to mark 100 years in October since the Anzac Mounted Division's strategic part winning the Battle of Beersheba.

The crowd was told how the light horsemen liberated Jerusalem during the bloodshed.

Sleepless night for Long Tan survivor

Long Tan veteran Laurie Drinkwater was one of almost 3,000 at the dawn service at the Cotton Tree park cenotaph in Maroochydore on Queensland's Sunshine Coast.

He was there to remember his lost mate, among 18 Australians who died in the 1966 battle.

"I don't seem to be able to sleep on Anzac eve," he said.

"Long Tan wasn't one of my most joyous days, but it turned my life around and made me appreciate life and freedom."

People were crammed into Brisbane's Anzac Square and shuffled out to the street.

Brisbane resident Vivienne Treagus has a long war history in her family and described the dawn service as "absolutely beautiful".

Her grandfather died from war injuries.

"My dad is a Vietnam vet and my grandfather and his brother were both Lancaster former pilots in WWII," she said.

"It's me paying my respects to my family and to those who have given the ultimate sacrifice for our country."

Police numbers will be up at Anzac Day events

There will be a large police presence at services and events throughout the state.

Acting Chief Superintendent Mark Reid said everyone should be aware of their surroundings and report suspicious behaviour.

"People are asked to go about their day as usual but of course, everyone should remain vigilant," he said.

"Importantly there are no known threats to Queensland events and the national terrorism level remains at probable."

The Anzac Day Parade through Brisbane's CBD will start at 10:00am.

Map: Anzac Day services Brisbane

Topics: anzac-day, event, qld

First posted