HIGHLIGHTS: Tucker Debuts at 8 PM ET, Talks Exclusively with Caitlyn Jenner

HIGHLIGHTS: Tucker Debuts at 8 PM ET, Talks Exclusively with Caitlyn Jenner // // Caitlyn Jenner joined Tucker Carlson for an exclusive interview on his first show at the 8 p.m. ET hour. The former Olympic Gold Medalist and author gave her perspective on President Donald Trump’s administration, the current political climate and divide in America, as well as her thoughts on how to bring Americans together. Jenner voted for Trump, but said she had a change of heart about the new administration because of its stance toward the transgender community. . @Caitlyn_Jenner : I would rather convince @GOP to do a better job when it comes to LGBT issues than...convince @TheDemocrats to lower taxes pic.twitter.com/ZceY67FHPy — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 25, 2017 Jenner said she is a Republican because she would rather convince people like Trump to be more accepting of LGBT concerns than to convince Democrats to lower taxes and regulations. But, she said she has more loyalty to her top political issues than she does a certain candidate. "He's kind of disappointed me in the first 100 days on those issues," Jenner said of Trump. However, she said she is not a one-issue voter and supports Republicans' platform. She remarked that it was more difficult to come out publicly as a transgender person than coming out as a Republican in Malibu, Calif. . @Caitlyn_Jenner : "You cannot compare sexuality & gender identity." #Tucker  pic.twitter.com/wKRz4vrWNQ — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 25, 2017 Jenner also discussed her book "The Secrets of My Life" and talked about issues facing the LGBT community. "It's not something that's just a whim," Jenner said about her gender identity, adding that she wished for the subject to become more visible because of America's next generation. . @Caitlyn_Jenner : You are basically born this way. I've dealt with these issues since I was [young]. It's not something that's just a whim. pic.twitter.com/l6yoPevFIL — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 25, 2017 Watch the full interview above. Earlier in the show, "Deadliest Catch" and "Dirty Jobs" host Mike Rowe discussed President Trump's "buy American" executive order. Rowe, a proponent of American manufacturing, said he was more nervous than excited about the order. "It feels like it might be a shortcut," Rowe said, adding that his father always told him that "shortcuts lead to long delays." . @mikeroweworks : I want environment where companies most responsible for hiring are dramatically encouraged by the market to keep biz here pic.twitter.com/bcEwK4rGYA — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 25, 2017 He said he would likely support Trump's order if it was shown to consider any "unintended consequences." Rowe noted that part of the reason for outsourcing is that American consumers value cost more than country-of-origin. "It's not just the worker, it's not just the boss, it's us," he said. Carlson opened his program with a stirring debate with former Clinton campaign adviser Richard Goodstein. Carlson pointed to a recent poll showing President Trump would win reelection by 43 to 40 percent over Hillary Clinton if the election were held today. "This poll is a disaster," he said, asking Goodstein whether Democrats should adopt a different approach to draw voters in than just attacking the president.

Caitlyn Jenner joined Tucker Carlson for an exclusive interview on his first show at the 8 p.m. ET hour.

The former Olympic Gold Medalist and author gave her perspective on President Donald Trump’s administration, the current political climate and divide in America, as well as her thoughts on how to bring Americans together.

Jenner voted for Trump, but said she had a change of heart about the new administration because of its stance toward the transgender community.

.@Caitlyn_Jenner: I would rather convince @GOP to do a better job when it comes to LGBT issues than...convince @TheDemocrats to lower taxes pic.twitter.com/ZceY67FHPy — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 25, 2017

Jenner said she is a Republican because she would rather convince people like Trump to be more accepting of LGBT concerns than to convince Democrats to lower taxes and regulations.

But, she said she has more loyalty to her top political issues than she does a certain candidate.

"He's kind of disappointed me in the first 100 days on those issues," Jenner said of Trump.

However, she said she is not a one-issue voter and supports Republicans' platform.

She remarked that it was more difficult to come out publicly as a transgender person than coming out as a Republican in Malibu, Calif.

Jenner also discussed her book "The Secrets of My Life" and talked about issues facing the LGBT community.

"It's not something that's just a whim," Jenner said about her gender identity, adding that she wished for the subject to become more visible because of America's next generation.

.@Caitlyn_Jenner: You are basically born this way. I've dealt with these issues since I was [young]. It's not something that's just a whim. pic.twitter.com/l6yoPevFIL — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 25, 2017

Watch the full interview above.

'This Poll is a Disaster': Tucker Spars With Clinton Adviser on Dems' Popularity

Brooklyn NY Prosecutor to 'Minimize Immigration Consequences' for Convicts

DETAILS: FBI, CIA Heads Huddle at Secretive New Zealand Conference

Earlier in the show, "Deadliest Catch" and "Dirty Jobs" host Mike Rowe discussed President Trump's "buy American" executive order.

Rowe, a proponent of American manufacturing, said he was more nervous than excited about the order.

"It feels like it might be a shortcut," Rowe said, adding that his father always told him that "shortcuts lead to long delays."

.@mikeroweworks: I want environment where companies most responsible for hiring are dramatically encouraged by the market to keep biz here pic.twitter.com/bcEwK4rGYA — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 25, 2017

He said he would likely support Trump's order if it was shown to consider any "unintended consequences."

Rowe noted that part of the reason for outsourcing is that American consumers value cost more than country-of-origin.

"It's not just the worker, it's not just the boss, it's us," he said.

Carlson opened his program with a stirring debate with former Clinton campaign adviser Richard Goodstein.

Carlson pointed to a recent poll showing President Trump would win reelection by 43 to 40 percent over Hillary Clinton if the election were held today.

"This poll is a disaster," he said, asking Goodstein whether Democrats should adopt a different approach to draw voters in than just attacking the president.

Obama Speaks in Chicago: 'There's a Gap Between Who's Governing Us and What We Believe'

New Poll: If Hillary Faced Trump Again Today, She Would Still Lose

Drexel Faces Backlash From Donors, Students Over Professor's Offensive Tweets