United Airlines flight reportedly makes emergency landing after engine issue
United Airlines flight reportedly makes emergency landing after engine issue
US REGIONS United Airlines flight reportedly makes emergency landing after engine issue FILE: United Airlines planes seen at the George Bush International Airport in Houston, Texas.
	                        
	                        	 (AP) A United Airlines fight on Monday made an emergency landing in Costa Rica after one of its engines reportedly overheated over the ocean. Time magazine, citing a reporter who was aboard the plane, reported that Flight 1516 was headed for Houston from Libreria, Costa Rica. The magazine citied local reports that said the plane took off from Daniel Oduber International Airport and landed back about two hours later after circling. The airline did not immediately respond to the magazine. A fire supervisor from Costa Rica confirmed the overheating incident. The plane was identified as a Boeing 737-800. One of the passengers aboard the flight reportedly said that the plane “about crashed in an emergency landing before the pilot quickly pulled up. So scary.” Another passenger said it was the “most frightening thing I’ve ever experienced.”

A United Airlines fight on Monday made an emergency landing in Costa Rica after one of its engines reportedly overheated over the ocean.

Time magazine, citing a reporter who was aboard the plane, reported that Flight 1516 was headed for Houston from Libreria, Costa Rica. The magazine citied local reports that said the plane took off from Daniel Oduber International Airport and landed back about two hours later after circling.

The airline did not immediately respond to the magazine. A fire supervisor from Costa Rica confirmed the overheating incident. The plane was identified as a Boeing 737-800.

One of the passengers aboard the flight reportedly said that the plane “about crashed in an emergency landing before the pilot quickly pulled up. So scary.” Another passenger said it was the “most frightening thing I’ve ever experienced.”