Kashmiri Scholar Threatened, Forced To Leave BITS Pilani + Other Top Stories
Kashmiri Scholar Threatened, Forced To Leave BITS Pilani + Other Top Stories
Kashmiri Scholar Threatened, Forced To Leave BITS Pilani + Other Top Stories A 27-year-old scholar from Kashmir was forced to return to the valley after he reported receiving alleged threats by some unidentified persons, barely three weeks after joining the institute. Read more 1) Kerala Minister MM Mani Under Fire For Calling IAS Officer 'Mad', Insulting Women Tea Plantation Workers Kerala power minister MM Mani is under fire for making derogatory remarks about activists of Pengal Otrumai (women tea plantation workers) in Munnar. The opposition is creating pressure on CM Pinarayi Vijayan to fire him. Read more Representational Image Sumaina Sharfi received a message from her husband Owais Talib, ‘Talaq Talaq Talaq’ on November 28 last year, signifying that her marriage to him is now over. This is just another case surfacing at the time of raging debate over ‘Triple Talaq’ and the rights of Muslim women. Read more Two tiger cubs died in Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol district after being infected by the deadly parvovirus. Another three-year-old tiger was shot dead on Saturday, bringing the toll to three in the last 48 hours. Read more The Indian Railways is gearing up to launch the Utkrisht Double-Decker AC Yatri (Uday) Express, a special class service for overnight journey that will ply on high-demand routes in July. Read more 5)

India Today

A 27-year-old scholar from Kashmir was forced to return to the valley after he reported receiving alleged threats by some unidentified persons, barely three weeks after joining the institute. Read more

Here is other top news of the day:

1) Kerala Minister MM Mani Under Fire For Calling IAS Officer 'Mad', Insulting Women Tea Plantation Workers

BCCL





Kerala power minister MM Mani is under fire for making derogatory remarks about activists of Pengal Otrumai (women tea plantation workers) in Munnar. The opposition is creating pressure on CM Pinarayi Vijayan to fire him. Read more





2) Woman Tortured And Forced To Have Sexual Relations With Her Father-In-Law, Finally Given Triple Talaq Over WhatsApp

Representational Image

Sumaina Sharfi received a message from her husband Owais Talib, ‘Talaq Talaq Talaq’ on November 28 last year, signifying that her marriage to him is now over. This is just another case surfacing at the time of raging debate over ‘Triple Talaq’ and the rights of Muslim women. Read more

3) Tigers Continue To Die In Madhya Pradesh, Three Deaths In 48 Hours Take Toll To 40 In 14 Months

BCCL/Representational Image

Two tiger cubs died in Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol district after being infected by the deadly parvovirus. Another three-year-old tiger was shot dead on Saturday, bringing the toll to three in the last 48 hours. Read more

4) Cheaper Tickets, LCD Screens, Bio-Toilets And Vending Machines On The Upcoming Utkrisht Double-Decker AC Yatri Trains

BCCL

The Indian Railways is gearing up to launch the Utkrisht Double-Decker AC Yatri (Uday) Express, a special class service for overnight journey that will ply on high-demand routes in July. Read more

5) If Centre Has Its Way, Cows May Soon Get Aadhaar-Like Unique Identification Numbers

BCCL/Representational Image

Don't Miss 654 SHARES 3.2 K SHARES 39 K SHARES 45.1 K SHARES 36.9 K SHARES

The central government has, amid debate over vigilantism, on Monday proposed to the Supreme court for providing aadhaar-like unique identification number to cows in India, ANI reported. Read more