India's Favourite Chef, Vikas Khanna Features In The Top 10 Chefs Around The World List
India's Favourite Chef, Vikas Khanna Features In The Top 10 Chefs Around The World List
India's Favourite Chef, Vikas Khanna Features In The Top 10 Chefs Around The World List This news would make all the MasterChefs of India immensely proud. Vikas Khanna, one of India’s most beloved chefs, has bagged a position in the coveted Gazette Review list of the world's top 10 best chefs. Vikas Khanna is sharing the space with eminent chefs like Gordon Ramsay, Marco Pierre White and Anthony Bourdain. He announced this good news on his Facebook page. "Most famous Chefs are American or French, but Vikas Khanna is one of the first Indian Chefs to receive international acclaim", the list states. The Michelin Star chef is the only Indian chef to make it to the list. Apart from this achievement, Vikas Khanna has also penned the most expensive cookbook in the world, which went for Rs 30 lakhs at an auction recently. He has cooked food for some of the most eminent personalities around the world, including the Obamas. FYI, here are the top 10 chefs who made it to the list – Here is the list of chefs who made it as the 1. Gordon Ramsay 2. Jamie Oliver 3. Wolfgang Puck 4. Heston Blumenthal 5. Marco Pierre White 7. Emeril Lagasse 8. Alain Ducasse 9. Paul Bocuse 10. Anthony Bourdain

This news would make all the MasterChefs of India immensely proud. Vikas Khanna, one of India’s most beloved chefs, has bagged a position in the coveted Gazette Review list of the world's top 10 best chefs.

epochtimes

Vikas Khanna is sharing the space with eminent chefs like Gordon Ramsay, Marco Pierre White and Anthony Bourdain.

He announced this good news on his Facebook page. "Most famous Chefs are American or French, but Vikas Khanna is one of the first Indian Chefs to receive international acclaim", the list states.

The Michelin Star chef is the only Indian chef to make it to the list. Apart from this achievement, Vikas Khanna has also penned the most expensive cookbook in the world, which went for Rs 30 lakhs at an auction recently. He has cooked food for some of the most eminent personalities around the world, including the Obamas.

FYI, here are the top 10 chefs who made it to the list –

Here is the list of chefs who made it as the Top 10 Chefs in the World.

1. Gordon Ramsay

2. Jamie Oliver

3. Wolfgang Puck

4. Heston Blumenthal

5. Marco Pierre White

6. Vikas Khanna

7. Emeril Lagasse

8. Alain Ducasse

9. Paul Bocuse

10. Anthony Bourdain