Anzac Day marked by Australian Antarctic expeditioners in below-freezing temperatures



Anzac Day marked by Australian Antarctic expeditioners in below-freezing temperatures

Updated

Below-freezing temperatures have not stopped Australian expeditioners in Antarctica from commemorating Anzac Day.

Dawn services were held at each of Australia's Antarctic research stations; Casey, Davis and Mawson, and on sub-Antarctic Macquarie Island.

Casey research station expeditioner Clint Chilcott, who was in the Australian Army for 18 years, led the service at Casey.

"It was brisk, minus 16 [degrees Celsius] at Casey this morning, as the expeditioners gathered around the flagpole for our dawn service," Mr Chilcott said.

"We lowered the Australian flag, listened to several readings and held the traditional two minutes of silence.

"Personally, Anzac Day offers an opportunity to reflect on the sacrifices of those who served before me, to remember the people I served with and to be thankful for the soldiers, sailors and airmen and airwomen who are still serving today.

"It is because of the commitment of our service men and women that Australians have the many opportunities we do, including the ability to live and work in a place like Antarctica."

Casey station chef Andrew Donnell told ABC Radio Hobart the 22 expeditioners living at the station this winter rugged up for the service.

"There's only a small group of us here so it makes it even more special, because we're here for the whole winter," he said.

"It's a very close knit community and there's a couple who have actually served in the conflict zone.

"So I guess for them, that makes it even more special."

After the service, the expeditioners had a barbecue, played two-up and an eight ball competition.

The division's general manager of support and operations Rob Wooding said the Australian Antarctic Program had a long association with the Australian Defence Force.

"Since it was founded in 1947, the Australian Antarctic Program has enjoyed a close relationship with the Australian Defence Force," Dr Wooding said.

Topics: anzac-day, tas

First posted