The Surprising Factor That Could Be A Gold Mine In Your Next Negotiation
The Surprising Factor That Could Be A Gold Mine In Your Next Negotiation
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alexandra Dickinson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock In a negotiation, there’s always more than one issue at stake. Even if you think it’s just price — for example, I want to buy a pre-owned car for the lowest possible price — there’s always at least one additional factor at play. In this case, time is also at stake. Am I going to pay in full right now, or am I going to pay in monthly installments? Once you get the hang of digging deeper to uncover all the issues in a negotiation, you can put together a better strategy. The key is to figure out that you both want the same thing — for you to move to the city where the company is headquartered — before they do. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

In a negotiation, there’s always more than one issue at stake. Even if you think it’s just price — for example, I want to buy a pre-owned car for the lowest possible price — there’s always at least one additional factor at play. In this case, time is also at stake. Am I going to pay in full right now, or am I going to pay in monthly installments? Once you get the hang of digging deeper to uncover all the issues in a negotiation, you can put together a better strategy.

There’s one type of issue in particular that can be a gold mine, if you know how to find it. It’s an issue where both parties want the same thing.

If you’re thinking, “that sounds too good to be true,” or “that’s impossible,” or even “can’t I just check that one off the list and move on?” — stick with me.

Imagine you’re interviewing for a job with a large company, and they have offices in multiple locations. Things are going well, and you realize they may want you to spend your first year at the headquarters, which is in a different city. What they don’t know is that you have family in that city and you are actually quite open to moving there.

The key is to figure out that you both want the same thing — for you to move to the city where the company is headquartered — before they do.

Since you’re not a mind reader, you may be wondering how you would pull this off and what you would do with that information once you had it. The good news is, it’s not as complicated as it sounds.

First, check in with your mindset. Try to approach the interview from a place of creative problem solving, rather than one of “please hire me.” Remember that it takes (at least) two to make a deal, and they need you as much as you need them. When you’re planning your negotiation strategy, write down a list of all the issues that could be at stake. That goes beyond simply salary and start date. If you’re stuck, I’ve written about things you can negotiate for that aren’t money.