Hillary Clinton Staffers Considered Campaign Slogan ‘Because It’s Her Turn’
Hillary Clinton Staffers Considered Campaign Slogan 'Because It's Her Turn' - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Hillary Clinton’s campaign team considered using the phrase “because it’s her turn” as her main campaign slogan, according to a recent book detailing the failures of her unsuccessful campaign for President. claims neither Clinton nor her campaign team could articulate exactly why she wanted to be president. At one point, her team proposed the idea of using the slogan “because it’s her turn” to encapsulate her core campaign message. The claim ties in with comments made by Donald Trump before the election that Hillary Clinton somehow felt “entitled to be president.” Staffers eventually chose to run with the phrase “Stronger Together,” implying that Clinton could unify the country in a way that Donald Trump could not, as well as encouraging Clinton supporters to promote the phrase “I’m with Her.” According to the book, written by ’s Amie Parnes and Sidewire’s Jonathan Allen, Barack Obama’s former speechwriter Jon Favreau described the campaign as a “bunch of operatives who were smart and accomplished in their own right but weren’t united by any common purpose larger than pushing a less-than-thrilling candidate into the White House,” adding that it reminded him of John Kerry’s unsuccessful presidential bid in 2004. Furthermore, Clinton’s speechwriting team were reportedly “stunned” by “the absence of any talk about her actual vision for the country.” Other revelations from the book include Hillary apologizing to Barack Obama after conceding to Trump, Clinton’s lack of understanding of losing white working-class support, and Obama privately criticizing Clinton’s use of a private email server — describing it as “political malpractice.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Hillary Clinton’s campaign team considered using the phrase “because it’s her turn” as her main campaign slogan, according to a recent book detailing the failures of her unsuccessful campaign for President.

Shattered: Inside Hillary Clinton’s Doomed Campaign claims neither Clinton nor her campaign team could articulate exactly why she wanted to be president. At one point, her team proposed the idea of using the slogan “because it’s her turn” to encapsulate her core campaign message.

The claim ties in with comments made by Donald Trump before the election that Hillary Clinton somehow felt “entitled to be president.”

Staffers eventually chose to run with the phrase “Stronger Together,” implying that Clinton could unify the country in a way that Donald Trump could not, as well as encouraging Clinton supporters to promote the phrase “I’m with Her.”

According to the book, written by The Hill’s Amie Parnes and Sidewire’s Jonathan Allen, Barack Obama’s former speechwriter Jon Favreau described the campaign as a “bunch of operatives who were smart and accomplished in their own right but weren’t united by any common purpose larger than pushing a less-than-thrilling candidate into the White House,” adding that it reminded him of John Kerry’s unsuccessful presidential bid in 2004.

Furthermore, Clinton’s speechwriting team were reportedly “stunned” by “the absence of any talk about her actual vision for the country.”

Other revelations from the book include Hillary apologizing to Barack Obama after conceding to Trump, Clinton’s lack of understanding of losing white working-class support, and Obama privately criticizing Clinton’s use of a private email server — describing it as “political malpractice.”

You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com