Fire rips through Russian 'nuclear town'
Fire rips through Russian town made to supply weapons-grade plutonium 


Residents of a Siberian town have complained of choking from the smoke of wildfires as fumes spread inside flats and houses.

Photos of Zheleznogorsk, a town of 84,800 people that is closed to outsiders, show flames close to residential buildings.

The town, 39 miles from major city Krasnoyarsk, retains nuclear facilities for storage although the production of weapons-grade plutonium was reported as having stopped in 2010.

Wildfires have hit Siberia's Zheleznogorsk, which retains nuclear facilities for storage although the production of weapons-grade plutonium was reported as having stopped in 2010

Photos of Zheleznogorsk, a town of 84,800 people that is closed to outsiders, show flames close to residential buildings

Residents of the south-central Siberian town have complained of 'choking' due to smoke from the fires

It is believed, however, that there is no immediate threat to the nuclear facilities, which are built within caverns excavated in the granite mountain on the northern edge of the city.

Local journalists said they could not get details of the fire from the local emergencies ministry, because they town's administration is run from Moscow, 2,100 miles and five time zones to the west, according to the Siberian Times.

Meanwhile, fire brigades had to make more than 30 trips to the area in attempts to stop the flames spreading further.

The cause of the wildfire is believed to have been grass which ignited after a period of dry weather following the melting of the winter snow.

Officials have reported that the situation in the area was now 'normal' but smoke from the stricken nuclear town was still spreading Krabnsnoyark, a city with a population of 1.03million.

Local journalists said they could not get details of the fire from the local emergencies ministry, because they town's administration is run from Moscow, 2,100 miles and five time zones to the west

The cause of the wildfire is believed to have been grass which ignited after a period of dry weather following the melting of the winter snow

Fire brigades had to make more than 30 trips to the area in attempts to stop the flames spreading further

Zheleznogorsk, formerly known as Krasnoyarsk-26, was founded by Joseph Stalin in 1950.

The town, in the southern part of central Siberia, sits on the banks of the Yenisei River.

Before 1992, when Soviet Union until President Boris Yeltsin decreed in 1992 that towns could use their historical names, Zheleznogorsk had not appeared on official maps.

Until then, it had only been known as Krasnoyarsk-26.

The town is closed, which means travel and residency restrictions require authorisation for overnight stays.

Zheleznogorsk, formerly known as Krasnoyarsk-26, was founded by Joseph Stalin in 1950. The town, in the southern part of central Siberia, sits on the banks of the Yenisei River