Dude trolls Starbucks baristas with a bunch of weird containers to fill up with coffee
Dude trolls Starbucks baristas with a bunch of weird containers to fill up with coffee
This guy is probably a barista's worst nightmare. In a now-viral stunt, a writer in China has documented his attempts to troll Starbucks baristas, by bringing an array of weird containers to the coffee joint in place of a takeaway mug. Image: Wechat The man, who goes by the pen name Zha Bao, posted his adventures , which were quickly circulated. SEE ALSO: Starbucks baristas are now creating 'unicorn lemonade' and there's no end to this He brought the odd containers to a Hangzhou Starbucks for the coffee giant's 3 yuan ($0.44) discount offered to patrons bringing their own cups. Image: Starbucks/Wechat First, he brought a small Chinese teapot: Image: Wechat The size of the containers get progressively larger, as Zha Bao presents a vinegar bottle and a Chinese medicine pot. Image: Wechat Image: wechat Finally, he brings out the grand finale — a big hulking metal basin: Image: Wechat Amazingly, baristas didn't seem to bat an eyelid. Zha Bao said that the large Chinese medicine pot was filled with 3 Venti-sized matcha frappucinos worth 102 yuan ($14.82), while the vinegar bottle was filled with a Venti iced lemon tea. The basin ended up holding eight Venti-sized lattes, or 5,678 ml (192 fluid ounces) of coffee. Image: WECHAT Image: WECHAT Image: Wechat Image: Wechat The eventual latte, which had 35 shots of espresso, cost him 327 yuan ($47.51). Image: Wechat The Seattle coffee chain faced a similar problem in the U.S. three years ago, when customers attempted to order enormous drinks for free as part of their Gold membership loyalty program. The company has since emphasised that drinks should not be larger than 24 oz. for cold drinks, and 20 oz. for hot drinks. WATCH: Woman uses Starbucks Unicorn Frappuccino to spread some magical news to her husband

This guy is probably a barista's worst nightmare.

In a now-viral stunt, a writer in China has documented his attempts to troll Starbucks baristas, by bringing an array of weird containers to the coffee joint in place of a takeaway mug.

View photos

Image: Wechat

The man, who goes by the pen name Zha Bao, posted his adventures on WeChat , which were quickly circulated.

SEE ALSO: Starbucks baristas are now creating 'unicorn lemonade' and there's no end to this

He brought the odd containers to a Hangzhou Starbucks for the coffee giant's 3 yuan ($0.44) discount offered to patrons bringing their own cups.

View photos The discount lasts for the whole of April, according to this post by Starbucks Zhejiang. More

Image: Starbucks/Wechat

First, he brought a small Chinese teapot:

View photos This small teapot could only hold half a tall iced latte. More

Image: Wechat

The size of the containers get progressively larger, as Zha Bao presents a vinegar bottle and a Chinese medicine pot.

View photos That bottle used to contain *vinegar*. More