'Bachelor' star Chris Soules arrested for leaving the scene of a fatal accident
'Bachelor' star Chris Soules arrested for leaving the scene of a fatal accident
Arrest 'Bachelor' star Chris Soules arrested for leaving the scene of a fatal accident By    “Bachelor” star Chris Soules was arrested on Monday following a fatal accident, Fox News has learned. According to a press release from the Buchanan County Sheriff's Office, Soules, 35, was arrested and charged with “leaving the scene of a fatality motor vehicle accident (a class D felony). "Due to the on-going investigation, further charges may be pending," the statement read. Soules' attorneys, Sean Spellman and Molly Spellman of West Des Moines, Iowa released a statement to Just Jared Tuesday saying, “Chris Soules was involved in an accident Monday evening (April 24) in a rural part of Iowa near his home. He was devastated to learn that Kenneth Mosher, the other person in the accident, passed away. His thoughts and prayers are with Mr. Mosher’s family." Sun setting on a beautiful Iowa Sunday. #Iowasunsets . #FarmLife  pic.twitter.com/0KLU3RaNsj Robert Roepke, whose daughter is married to Mosher's son, defended Soules. “I believe it was a very tragic, sad accident that took the life of a guy that was just coming home from work," Roepke told People . “This is corn planting time, the best time of the year for a farmer. Kenny was working on one of the farms just a little north of Aurora and I think he was just coming home. For Chris, what happened was just a freak accident. “Chris comes from a good family and is still well-vested in farming. He’s got a great life ahead of him,” he adds. “This is a serious bump in the road and I don’t know about his [alleged] alcohol issue but I just know that this was a huge mistake. It’s something he’s going to have to deal with for the rest of his life. It just ended very tragically.” According to Iowa's KWWL.com , court documents indicate there were alcoholic containers at the scene of the crime. “Ken was just a guy – a husband, grandfather, a dad,” says Roepke. “He loved farming and cared about the land. He was a good guy. He was doing his business, taking care of business. The Mosher’s are in shock and still trying to process it all.” Police responded to a 911 call about the accident at approximately 8:20 p.m. Monday. According to TMZ , the reality star was driving a vehicle that rear-ended a tractor trailer. The driver of the tractor trailer, [Kenneth Eugene Mosher, 66 of Aurora], reportedly died at the hospital following the crash after the vehicle was sent into a ditch. "The judge put a $10,000 cash bond on him," an official at the jail told Fox News. He posted bond and was released on Tuesday. Soules starred on the 19th season of “The Bachelor” and became engaged to Whitney Bischoff on the show. The pair has since split. He appeared on "Dancing with the Stars" after his "Bachelor" season. ABC declined to comment.  ESPN to lay off about 100 employees today, including on-air talent   'Little House on the Prairie' star Charlotte Stewart recalls days with Jim Morrison, Elvis and Bill Murray   Erin Moran's husband reveals her tragic final days with skin cancer   10 shocking HGTV scandals

“Bachelor” star Chris Soules was arrested on Monday following a fatal accident, Fox News has learned.

According to a press release from the Buchanan County Sheriff's Office, Soules, 35, was arrested and charged with “leaving the scene of a fatality motor vehicle accident (a class D felony).

"Due to the on-going investigation, further charges may be pending," the statement read.

Soules' attorneys, Sean Spellman and Molly Spellman of West Des Moines, Iowa released a statement to Just Jared Tuesday saying, “Chris Soules was involved in an accident Monday evening (April 24) in a rural part of Iowa near his home. He was devastated to learn that Kenneth Mosher, the other person in the accident, passed away. His thoughts and prayers are with Mr. Mosher’s family."

Robert Roepke, whose daughter is married to Mosher's son, defended Soules.

“I believe it was a very tragic, sad accident that took the life of a guy that was just coming home from work," Roepke told People.

“This is corn planting time, the best time of the year for a farmer. Kenny was working on one of the farms just a little north of Aurora and I think he was just coming home. For Chris, what happened was just a freak accident.

“Chris comes from a good family and is still well-vested in farming. He’s got a great life ahead of him,” he adds. “This is a serious bump in the road and I don’t know about his [alleged] alcohol issue but I just know that this was a huge mistake. It’s something he’s going to have to deal with for the rest of his life. It just ended very tragically.”

According to Iowa's KWWL.com, court documents indicate there were alcoholic containers at the scene of the crime.

“Ken was just a guy – a husband, grandfather, a dad,” says Roepke. “He loved farming and cared about the land. He was a good guy. He was doing his business, taking care of business. The Mosher’s are in shock and still trying to process it all.”

Police responded to a 911 call about the accident at approximately 8:20 p.m. Monday.

According to TMZ, the reality star was driving a vehicle that rear-ended a tractor trailer. The driver of the tractor trailer, [Kenneth Eugene Mosher, 66 of Aurora], reportedly died at the hospital following the crash after the vehicle was sent into a ditch.

CHRIS SOULES TALKS LIFE AFTER 'THE BACHELOR'

"The judge put a $10,000 cash bond on him," an official at the jail told Fox News. He posted bond and was released on Tuesday.

Soules starred on the 19th season of “The Bachelor” and became engaged to Whitney Bischoff on the show. The pair has since split.

He appeared on "Dancing with the Stars" after his "Bachelor" season.

ABC declined to comment.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS.