Israel president accuses Le Pen of Holocaust denial
Israel president accuses Le Pen of new form of Holocaust denial


Far-right French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has been accused of a new form of Holocaust denial in a scathing speech by Israel's president.

Reuven Rivlin said Le Pen was guilty of creating a new, dangerous form of denial disregarding European responsibility for the Second World War murder of Jews.

Earlier this month the divisive French politician said she did not think France was responsible for the Vel d'Hiv - the 1942 round-up of Jews at a Paris cycling tracks.

Israeli President Reuven Rivlin lays a wreath during a ceremony marking the annual Holocaust Remembrance Day at the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial in Jerusalem on April 24, 2017

Rivlin, right, alongside Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu marking the annual Holocaust Remembrance Day yesterday

Those rounded up were taken to Nazi death camps.

'The prevalent message arising from recent political statements is uniquely disturbing,' Rivlin said at a ceremony for Israel's Holocaust Memorial Day.

'And in every place that message is the same: we are not responsible for the Holocaust. We are not responsible for the extermination of the Jews that occurred within our borders,' Rivlin said in Lohamei Hagetaot, a kibbutz north of Haifa.

'For example, some two weeks ago a French presidential candidate denied France's responsibility for the deportation of its Jewish citizens to the Nazi concentration and death camps,' he said.

Le Pen will face centrist Emmanuel Macron in the second round of the French presidential elections next month

Le Pen, who has advanced to the second round of the French presidential race, said on April 9 she did not 'think France is responsible for the Vel d'Hiv'.

The Israeli government condemned her remark as 'contrary to the historical truth, which has been expressed by French presidents who have recognised the country's responsibility for the fate of French Jews who died in the Holocaust'.

In his speech on Monday, Rivlin warned of new form of Holocaust denial set to blur the boundaries between victims and perpetrators.

'The denial of responsibility of the crimes committed in the days of the Second World War is Holocaust denial of a new, more destructive and dangerous kind from that we have known till now,' he said.

He said that while traditional Holocaust deniers had minimal success, the new wave strives towards 'a more sophisticated goal' of 'a denial of the distinction between a victim and a criminal'.

Rivlin stated: 'If I am the victim, I bear no responsibility; no responsibility for the horror that was; no responsibility to fight the renewed outbreak of anti-Semitism, the rise of xenophobia and the rise of nationalist violence.'

'We must wage a war against the current and dangerous wave of Holocaust denial.'

Israel's official stance of avoiding contact with Le Pen's National Front, which is accused of anti-Semitism, was reaffirmed during the January visit of the party's secretary general Nicolas Bay.

Le Pen received 3.7 per cent of the votes cast by French nationals in Israel on the first round of the presidential election on Sunday, far behind Francois Fillon (60.4 per cent) and Emmanuel Macron (30.9 per cent).