Emmanuel Macron can be the 'French JFK' say EU allies
Macron can be the 'French JFK', say his EU allies


French presidential favourite Emmanuel Macron has been dubbed the country’s answer to ‘John F Kennedy’ by a leading European politician.

Polls predict Mr Macron will breeze into the top position, securing up to 64 per cent of the vote compared to Marine Le Pen’s 36 per cent.

And current president Francois Hollande has also urged the public to vote for the 39-year-old centrist candidate.

French presidential favourite Emmanuel Macron has been dubbed the country’s answer to ‘John F Kennedy’ by a leading European politician

Mr Macron (left) received plaudits in Germany where the vice president of the European Parliament likened him to American Democrat President Kennedy (right)

Mr Macron received plaudits in Germany where the vice president of the European Parliament likened him to American Democrat President Kennedy. Alexander Lambsdorff said Sunday’s result was a victory for two protest candidates. He described Miss Le Pen as a ‘racist’ and a ‘very unpleasant person’.

Showering praise on Mr Macron, he added: ‘This independent, fresh French John F Kennedy, if you like, succeeds in setting policy with his ideas.’

Far-Right National Front leader Miss Le Pen, 48, was quick to take a swipe at her rival telling reporters he had ‘no programme’ on counter-terrorism issues.

She called him ‘weak’ in a desperate bid to gain ground as polls predicted that the man regarded as presidential favourite would win a 28 per cent lead in the election.

Polls predict that Mr Macron will breeze into the top position, securing up to 64 per cent of the vote compared to Miss Le Pen’s 36 per cent.

The topic is one of the most important issues weighing on voters’ minds as the country goes to the polls again only weeks after a radicalist gunned down a policeman on the Champs Elysees.

HOW MAN WHO CALLED BREXIT CRIME COULD SCUPPER DEAL A positive Brexit trade deal for Britain could be scuppered by Emmanuel Macron’s likely victory in the French presidential elections, it was feared last night. The independent centrist, who topped Sunday’s poll, has called the UK’s decision to leave the EU a ‘crime’ and previously said he would ensure Britain was given no ‘undue advantages’ in deals. Mr Macron said: ‘Brexit cannot lead to a kind of optimisation of Britain’s relationship with the rest of Europe. An exit is an exit.’ He has also pledged to lure business and banking talent away from the UK after Brexit. French MP Herve Mariton said yesterday he believed Mr Macron’s election ‘will actually make Brexit a little more difficult for Britain’. But Mr Macron’s spokesman, Benjamin Griveaux, said the presidential hopeful would not ‘punish’ Britain. Senior Brussels figures yesterday queued up to offer support to the pro-EU candidate, drawing accusations of political meddling.

Repeating her campaign mantra, Miss Le Pen, who has said she will put ‘Frexit’ on the table if elected, told locals in the farmers’ market town of Rouvroy, in the Pas-de-Calais, that she wanted to put ‘France back in order’.

The Front National (FN) leader told the media: ‘I'm on the ground to meet the French people to draw their attention to important subjects, including Islamist terrorism – an issue Mr Macron is weak on to say the least.’

‘Mr Macron has no project to protect the French people in the face of Islamist dangers,’ she added.

The comments come despite Mr Macron’s pledge to put 10,000 more police officers on France’s streets as well as making 15,000 new prison places.

Miss Le Pen’s aides were also quick to make a dig at ‘arrogant’ Mr Macron. Deputy FN leader Florian Philippot told BFMTV that Mr Macron had indulged in a ‘bling bling’ party – after securing 24 per cent of the vote on Sunday night compared to Miss Le Pen’s 21.3 per cent.

Mr Philippot told the French broadcaster: ‘Emmanuel is not a patriot. He sold off national companies. He criticised French culture.’

He added: ‘Yesterday he (Macron) was Sarkozy’s double…He did this the night of a first round, as if he had already won, as if the vote of the French people had no importance, as if, in any event it was writing on the wall. I find that arrogant, I find that contemptuous.’

It came as socialist Mr Hollande, who will leave the Elysee Palace after five years at the helm, slammed the Front National candidate.

Speaking yesterday, he said a Le Pen win would devastate the country’s economy and threaten national liberty. He added it would ‘deeply divide France’ at a time when ‘solidarity’ and ‘cohesion’ was crucial.

Far-Right National Front leader Miss Le Pen, 48, was quick to take a swipe at her rival telling reporters he had ‘no programme’ on counter-terrorism issues

He said: ‘The presence of the extreme right in the second round is a risk for the country. What is at stake is France's make-up, its unity, its membership of Europe and its place in the world.’

‘Faced with such a risk, mobilisation and clarity of choice is must…For my part, I will be voting for Emmanuel Macron,’ he added.

SHARES SOAR AS EX-BANKER FORECAST TO BEAT EXTREMIST European markets posted record highs as banks rallied after Emmanuel Macron beat Marine Le Pen in the first round of the French presidential vote. With markets now expecting former investment banker Macron to beat Le Pen in the final round of voting, France’s banking stocks hit a nine-year high. This pushed the country’s CAC 40 index up 4.1 per cent to its best day since last July, while Germany’s Dax hit a new record high, jumping 3.4 per cent. In the UK, the FTSE 100 shot up 2.1 per cent, its biggest one day jump in seven months. Michelle McGrade, chief investment officer at TD Direct Investing, said: ‘The markets and banks rallied on the promise that normality might be restored with a Macron win. Having been out of favour in recent times, banking stocks are big beneficiaries of normal circumstances.’ The price of gold, typically used as a safe investment in times of political uncertainty, plummeted.

Mr Macron was President Hollande’s top adviser on economic issues between 2012 to 2014 before going on to take the role as economy minister until creating his own party En Marche! in 2016.

Rallying calls across France’s Muslim and Jewish communities were also made for Miss Le Pen to be kept out of the top job.

Dalil Boubakeur, rector of Paris’ Grand Mosque, urged the country’s nearly five million Muslims to take to the ballot boxes to ensure Mr Macron becomes leader.

Mr Boubakeur said that May 7 was a ‘decisive’ date for ‘the destiny of France and its religious minorities’ and called on his followers to ‘vote massively’ for Mr Macron.

He also warned of the ‘threat embodied by xenophobic ideas, dangerous to our cohesion’

The president of the European Jewish Congress meanwhile described Le Pen as ‘dangerous’ adding that it was ‘extremely regrettable’ that more than one in five French voters had chosen her.

The comments urging unity came after protestors took to the streets on Sunday night after Miss Le Pen came out second in the first round of the elections.

Scores of riot police charged through the Place de la Republique in central Paris brandishing shields and shooting tear gas after rioters threw flares, bottles and scribbled ‘F*** the FN’ on the statue in the city’s symbolic square. In other parts of Paris, protestors burned cars and lit fires in the city’s streets.

As a result of the protests, six officers and three demonstrators were left injured with 29 people still in custody following the unrest while 143 had originally been taken in for questioning by police.