Kobe Bryant Performs Slam Poetry About Steve Urkel, Sings 'Moana' Song on 'Fallon'
Kobe Bryant Performs Slam Poetry About Steve Urkel, Sings 'Moana' Song on 'Fallon'
Kobe Bryant was a guest on on Monday night, and during his appearance on the show, he did a little bit of everything. Rather than just come out and do the standard sit-down interview with Jimmy Fallon , Kobe started things off by performing slam poetry about Steve Urkel. No, we aren’t kidding. Fallon really turned down the lights in the studio and let Kobe drop lines like, "Ha! He laughs in the face of God/Is it a sin, though?/To change who you are/To win the heart of Laura Winslow." You can watch Kobe go to town here: Once that was over, Kobe did sit with Fallon for a traditional interview, and he talked about how his middle daughter Gianna doesn't take any of the advice he tries to give her when it comes to basketball. Yeah, he’s Kobe Bryant, but that doesn’t mean he gets to be the overbearing dad dishing out strategies from the sidelines: And at the end of his appearance, Kobe also took some questions from reporter Max Bonnstetter , who first made a name for himself by asking South Carolina head coach Frank Martin a question during the NCAA Tournament. Bonnstetter asked Kobe a range of different questions—including what it was like to be a millionaire as a teenager and who the toughest defender he ever played against was—but the highlight came when the young reporter inquired about whether Kobe likes or better. Kobe’s response? Yep, @KobeBryant just sang @DisneyMoana  #FallonTonight  pic.twitter.com/H63FhWIyzg He sang a few lines from Alessia Cara ’s hit song, "How Far I’ll Go," off the soundtrack (before ultimately picking !). You can check it out here: Additionally, Kobe spoke for a few minutes about his new animated film, , and what he needed to do to get it done: It’s still weird to see Kobe doing something other than playing basketball in the middle of April. But it looks like he might be serious when he says he doesn’t miss the sport .

Kobe Bryant was a guest on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on Monday night, and during his appearance on the show, he did a little bit of everything. Rather than just come out and do the standard sit-down interview with Jimmy Fallon, Kobe started things off by performing slam poetry about Steve Urkel.

No, we aren’t kidding. Fallon really turned down the lights in the studio and let Kobe drop lines like, "Ha! He laughs in the face of God/Is it a sin, though?/To change who you are/To win the heart of Laura Winslow." You can watch Kobe go to town here:

Once that was over, Kobe did sit with Fallon for a traditional interview, and he talked about how his middle daughter Gianna doesn't take any of the advice he tries to give her when it comes to basketball. Yeah, he’s Kobe freaking Bryant, but that doesn’t mean he gets to be the overbearing dad dishing out strategies from the sidelines:

And at the end of his appearance, Kobe also took some questions from S.I. Kids reporter Max Bonnstetter, who first made a name for himself by asking South Carolina head coach Frank Martin a question during the NCAA Tournament. Bonnstetter asked Kobe a range of different questions—including what it was like to be a millionaire as a teenager and who the toughest defender he ever played against was—but the highlight came when the young reporter inquired about whether Kobe likes Moana or Beauty and the Beast better. Kobe’s response?

He sang a few lines from Alessia Cara’s hit song, "How Far I’ll Go," off the Moana soundtrack (before ultimately picking Beauty and the Beast!). You can check it out here:

Additionally, Kobe spoke for a few minutes about his new animated film, Dear Basketball, and what he needed to do to get it done:

It’s still weird to see Kobe doing something other than playing basketball in the middle of April. But it looks like he might be serious when he says he doesn’t miss the sport.