Happy Days star Scott Baio defends himself after backlash over Erin Moran: 'You bash me because I support Trump'
Happy Days star Scott Baio defends himself after backlash over Erin Moran: 'You bash me because I support Trump'
ctor Scott Baio is in hot water following the death of his former Happy Days co-star Erin Moran , after he suggested that a life of drugs and alcohol had eventually killed her. Baio made the comments following initial reports that the star had died from a suspected heroin overdose. A coroner's report then disclosed the 56-year-old Moran had stage 4 cancer. Baio had appeared to display little sympathy for her before that, however. During an interview with WABC Radio , he claimed she only had herself to blame for her demise. "I'm a little shocked but not completely shocked that this happened," Baio said. "My thing is, I feel bad because her whole life she was troubled, could never find what made her happy and content. "For me, you do drugs or drink, you're gonna die. I'm sorry if that's cold, but God gave you a brain, gave you the will to live and thrive and you gotta take care of yourself." "I knew Erin well, over the last many years I have not spoken with her," he continued. "She was just an insecure human being and fell into this world of drugs and alcohol. Again, I don't know if that's what killed her, I'm sure it was a culmination of years and years of doing it that might have had something to do with it. She just never found her way." "How do you help somebody that doesn't want to help themselves? You try a couple of times and if they don't want the help, I gotta go, sorry." aio's comments were in stark contrast to his message of condolence posted to Twitter over the weekend, which read: "May people remember Erin for her contagious smile, warm heart, and animal loving soul." oran's cause of death was initially unknown, until a report originating from Mail Online claimed that the actress had died of a "suspected heroin overdose". However, an official coroner's report revealed that Moran's death at the age of 56 was the likely result of "complications of stage 4 cancer." Baio today has also attempted to perform some damage control, claiming his comments were taken out of context. In a Facebook message, Baio argued that he only expressed slightly damning opinions of Moran and her death when he thought she had died of a drugs overdose. "Monday, April 24th at 6AM Pacific time I did a live radio interview," he wrote. "I was asked ONLY about Erin's troubled past due to drug & alcohol abuse. I was still upset and said I felt that living that kind of a lifestyle will catch up with you and nothing good would come of it. THIS WAS BEFORE THE CAUSE OF DEATH WAS ANNOUNCED STATING STAGE 4 CANCER." I said "IF". @ChaseMit . My wife @MrsScottBaio spoke to Erin less than 1 month ago. You bash me ONLY because I support Pres @realDonaldTrump e also seemed to blame social media blowback against his comments on the fact that he is a well-known supporter of Donald Trump . "My wife @MrsScottBaio spoke to Erin less than 1 month ago. You bash me ONLY because I support Pres @realDonaldTrump," he wrote on Twitter.

"I'm a little shocked but not completely shocked that this happened," Baio said. "My thing is, I feel bad because her whole life she was troubled, could never find what made her happy and content.

"For me, you do drugs or drink, you're gonna die. I'm sorry if that's cold, but God gave you a brain, gave you the will to live and thrive and you gotta take care of yourself."

"I knew Erin well, over the last many years I have not spoken with her," he continued. "She was just an insecure human being and fell into this world of drugs and alcohol. Again, I don't know if that's what killed her, I'm sure it was a culmination of years and years of doing it that might have had something to do with it. She just never found her way."

"How do you help somebody that doesn't want to help themselves? You try a couple of times and if they don't want the help, I gotta go, sorry."