Topshop’s Clear Plastic Jeans Are Here
Topshop’s Clear Plastic Jeans Are Here
Topshop is still in recovery mode from the Clear Panel Mom Jeans backlash , but the fashion retailer is stirring controversy yet again with its latest creation. On Monday, Topshop debuted MOTO Clear Plastic Straight Leg Jeans . The product description for the completely translucent $100 jeans reads, “Think outside the box with these out-of-the-ordinary clear plastic jeans — guaranteed to get people talking. In a straight leg cut, they feature classic pockets detailing and are cropped at the ankle bone. Ideal as a statement piece for a festival or costume party, take the look to the extreme with a bikini and sequin jacket or dress down, layered under an oversized jumper or asymmetric hem dress.” Naturally, Twitter demanded answers. These 'jeans' from @Topshop are like a step up from those clear knee high boots that steam up. Just…WHY. ????????‍♀️ pic.twitter.com/yIt5ez80a8 — Amy Lo (@amylo_92) April 23, 2017 N jus when you thought life couldn't get any worse, topshop release these 'jeans' pic.twitter.com/xwMc52F4ms — • cath • (@__cxtherine) April 24, 2017 what the heck is this topshop??? pic.twitter.com/rJwwT3f9PZ — tiny ida (@smolsavior) April 24, 2017 In March, the British retailer, who did not return Yahoo Style’s request for comment, introduced $95 MOTO Clear Panel Mom Jeans , high-waisted, tapered denim pants with clear plastic knee panels. While the pants were possibly an updated take on the classic “mom jeans” (per the product description, the “slick plastic panels bare your knees for a futuristic feel”), the purpose of the panels remains unknown. For better or worse, denim seems to be going through an experimental phase lately. In 2016, Topshop sold “cutabout denim” with a strategically cut waistband. In April, French brand Vetements presented us with Bare Butt jeans (featuring a butt zipper for the indecisive), courtesy of the Vetements x Levis collection . Another style in the collection boasts thigh and crotch zippers. One-leg jeans also made their way into Coachella , courtesy of singer Ryan Destiny , star of the Fox show . And Kendall Jenner ‘s so-called invisible jeans — denim cutoffs with frayed seams and cuffs creating a pantlike outline — were just plain confusing. We can only imagine what’s in store for denim this summer. • Is Curvy Model Hunter McGrady the New Jennifer Aniston? • Dolce & Gabbana Sneaker Graffiti Brags ‘I’m Thin & Gorgeous’ • Male Plus-Size Model Created a Catchy Anthem for Curvy Women Everywhere

Topshop is still in recovery mode from the Clear Panel Mom Jeans backlash, but the fashion retailer is stirring controversy yet again with its latest creation.

On Monday, Topshop debuted MOTO Clear Plastic Straight Leg Jeans. The product description for the completely translucent $100 jeans reads, “Think outside the box with these out-of-the-ordinary clear plastic jeans — guaranteed to get people talking. In a straight leg cut, they feature classic pockets detailing and are cropped at the ankle bone. Ideal as a statement piece for a festival or costume party, take the look to the extreme with a bikini and sequin jacket or dress down, layered under an oversized jumper or asymmetric hem dress.”

Naturally, Twitter demanded answers.

These 'jeans' from @Topshop are like a step up from those clear knee high boots that steam up. Just…WHY. ????????‍♀️ pic.twitter.com/yIt5ez80a8 — Amy Lo (@amylo_92) April 23, 2017





N jus when you thought life couldn't get any worse, topshop release these 'jeans' pic.twitter.com/xwMc52F4ms — • cath • (@__cxtherine) April 24, 2017





what the heck is this topshop??? pic.twitter.com/rJwwT3f9PZ — tiny ida (@smolsavior) April 24, 2017





In March, the British retailer, who did not return Yahoo Style’s request for comment, introduced $95 MOTO Clear Panel Mom Jeans, high-waisted, tapered denim pants with clear plastic knee panels. While the pants were possibly an updated take on the classic “mom jeans” (per the product description, the “slick plastic panels bare your knees for a futuristic feel”), the purpose of the panels remains unknown.

For better or worse, denim seems to be going through an experimental phase lately.

In 2016, Topshop sold “cutabout denim” with a strategically cut waistband.





In April, French brand Vetements presented us with Bare Butt jeans (featuring a butt zipper for the indecisive), courtesy of the Vetements x Levis collection.





Another style in the collection boasts thigh and crotch zippers.





One-leg jeans also made their way into Coachella, courtesy of singer Ryan Destiny, star of the Fox show Star.





And Kendall Jenner‘s so-called invisible jeans — denim cutoffs with frayed seams and cuffs creating a pantlike outline — were just plain confusing.

We can only imagine what’s in store for denim this summer.

Kendall Jenner rocks “invisible jeans.” (Photo: BG002/Bauer-Griffin/GC Images) More

Read more from Yahoo Style + Beauty:

• Is Curvy Model Hunter McGrady the New Jennifer Aniston?

• Dolce & Gabbana Sneaker Graffiti Brags ‘I’m Thin & Gorgeous’

• Male Plus-Size Model Created a Catchy Anthem for Curvy Women Everywhere

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day. For Twitter updates, follow @YahooStyle and @YahooBeauty.