Alabama Crimson Tide LB Reuben Foster not invited to NFL draft
Source: Alabama's Foster not invited to draft
Source: Alabama's Foster not invited to draft Manu Ginobili provides Spurs the 'juice' to pull out pivotal Game 5 King of the tape-measure home run? Aaron Judge's blasts go a long way Rovell: I took the Wonderlic, and I’ve changed my mind Sharapova 2.0, doping in track and the Mavs' China move Does boxing need to be saved? Four-Ball: Sorting through Tiger's future Reuben Foster addresses why he had a diluted sample prior to the scouting combine and says it will not be an issue moving forward. (2:08) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Joined ESPN in 2016 Previously covered the Saints for the Times-Picayune from 2013-2016 Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Alabama linebacker Reuben Foster was not invited to attend the 2017 NFL draft because of an incident at the scouting combine in March, according to a league source. The NFL declined to comment Tuesday. Foster is a potential top-10 pick in the draft, which will begin Thursday at 8 p.m. ET in Philadelphia. Foster was sent home from the combine after getting into an argument with a hospital worker during medical checks. The NFL would only say Foster was sent home for "personal reasons." Foster later sent a letter to all 32 teams apologizing for the incident. He also tested positive at the NFL combine for a diluted urine sample, which he said was a result of excessive water intake while he was trying to get over an illness. "This is something that's going to get out," Foster told NFL.com. "I don't make excuses. I'm a real dude. I try to be a good person. ... I just hope the coaches understand, and that's all I can hope and pray for." Foster was a unanimous first-team All-American during his final season at Alabama and also won the Butkus Award, which is given to the nation's best college linebacker. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Reuben Foster addresses why he had a diluted sample prior to the scouting combine and says it will not be an issue moving forward. (2:08)

Alabama linebacker Reuben Foster was not invited to attend the 2017 NFL draft because of an incident at the scouting combine in March, according to a league source.

The NFL declined to comment Tuesday.

Foster is a potential top-10 pick in the draft, which will begin Thursday at 8 p.m. ET in Philadelphia.

Reuben Foster is a potential top-10 pick at linebacker. Mark LoMoglio/Icon Sportswire

Foster was sent home from the combine after getting into an argument with a hospital worker during medical checks. The NFL would only say Foster was sent home for "personal reasons." Foster later sent a letter to all 32 teams apologizing for the incident.

He also tested positive at the NFL combine for a diluted urine sample, which he said was a result of excessive water intake while he was trying to get over an illness.

"This is something that's going to get out," Foster told NFL.com. "I don't make excuses. I'm a real dude. I try to be a good person. ... I just hope the coaches understand, and that's all I can hope and pray for."

Foster was a unanimous first-team All-American during his final season at Alabama and also won the Butkus Award, which is given to the nation's best college linebacker.