Fox News Dominates Cable News Ratings Monday, First Night Without Bill O'Reilly
Fox News Dominates Cable News Ratings Monday, First Night Without Bill O'Reilly
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Mark Joyella       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (AP Photo/Richard Drew) Fox News Channel debuted a revamped prime-time lineup Monday, with missing from the 8 p.m. ET time slot for the first time in more than 20 years. And yet, even without Bill O'Reilly, the host considered the face of Fox News as the network rose to dominance in cable news, the network stayed on top, easily outpacing the competition from MSNBC and CNN. While there's limited value in examining one night of Nielsen ratings data, network bosses will be relieved by the performance of Tucker Carlson, whose moved to 8 p.m. on Monday and delivered 3.2 million viewers--easily beating the combined total viewership of CNN's (1,000,277 viewers) and MSNBC's (1,515,915). The 9 p.m. hour, which had been home to Carlson since the departure of Megyn Kelly for NBC, will be an interesting time period to watch. On Monday, Fox News turned to to defend against a strong challenge in recent months from MSNBC's . In their first head-to-head matchup, won the hour, with 2,758,548 total viewers. Maddow was second with 2,161,898 and CNN's finished third with 881,724 total viewers. Overall, Fox News finished the night with the top three shows in cable news, , , and . Despite the exits of both O'Reilly and Kelly since the beginning of the year, Fox News was still able to point to a year-over-year increase in viewership for Monday night. Compared to the same day last year, FNC’s primetime average was up 31% among total viewers--and up 54% among viewers 25-54, the demographic most appealing to advertisers. O'Reilly, meanwhile, hosted his podcast Monday and said, "I am very sad that I am not on television anymore." O'Reilly said that for now, he would not speak in detail about the sexual harassment scandal that forced him from Fox News. "I was very surprised how it all turned out. I can’t say a lot because there's much stuff going on right now, but I can tell you that I am very confident the truth will come out and when it does I don’t know if you are going to be surprised, but I think you are going to be shaken as I am." Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Fox News Channel debuted a revamped prime-time lineup Monday, with The O'Reilly Factor missing from the 8 p.m. ET time slot for the first time in more than 20 years.

And yet, even without Bill O'Reilly, the host considered the face of Fox News as the network rose to dominance in cable news, the network stayed on top, easily outpacing the competition from MSNBC and CNN.

While there's limited value in examining one night of Nielsen ratings data, network bosses will be relieved by the performance of Tucker Carlson, whose Tucker Carlson Tonight moved to 8 p.m. on Monday and delivered 3.2 million viewers--easily beating the combined total viewership of CNN's Anderson Cooper 360 (1,000,277 viewers) and MSNBC's All In with Chris Hayes (1,515,915).

The 9 p.m. hour, which had been home to Carlson since the departure of Megyn Kelly for NBC, will be an interesting time period to watch. On Monday, Fox News turned to The Five to defend against a strong challenge in recent months from MSNBC's The Rachel Maddow Show.

In their first head-to-head matchup, The Five won the hour, with 2,758,548 total viewers. Maddow was second with 2,161,898 and CNN's The Lead finished third with 881,724 total viewers.

Overall, Fox News finished the night with the top three shows in cable news, Tucker Carlson Tonight, The Five, and Hannity.

Despite the exits of both O'Reilly and Kelly since the beginning of the year, Fox News was still able to point to a year-over-year increase in viewership for Monday night. Compared to the same day last year, FNC’s primetime average was up 31% among total viewers--and up 54% among viewers 25-54, the demographic most appealing to advertisers.

O'Reilly, meanwhile, hosted his podcast Monday and said, "I am very sad that I am not on television anymore."

O'Reilly said that for now, he would not speak in detail about the sexual harassment scandal that forced him from Fox News. "I was very surprised how it all turned out. I can’t say a lot because there's much stuff going on right now, but I can tell you that I am very confident the truth will come out and when it does I don’t know if you are going to be surprised, but I think you are going to be shaken as I am."

Mark Joyella is a journalist, writer and public speaker; you can follow him on Twitter and Facebook, and watch his vlog on YouTube.