Hot 97 Reveals Stadium Stage Lineup For Summer Jam 2017
Hot 97 Reveals Stadium Stage Lineup For Summer Jam 2017
Summer Jam is a little over a month away, and we finally know who's set to perform on the Stadium Stage at the Hot 97 showcase. The big-name performers include Chris Brown, DJ Khaled and friends, French Montana and friends (the "and friends" in French's case, the station hinted, may include " somebody up in Canada "), Trey Songz, Desiigner, and many more. The lineup also includes Funk Flex and friends, Joey Badass, Tory Lanez, Fat Joe and Remy Ma, and Jidenna. Plus, there will be a special 20-year tribute to the Notorious B.I.G. featuring Faith Evans and Mister Cee. DJ Khaled was the first name announced, and he told Hot 97 on the air he was working on a bunch of "top secret" surprises in advance of Summer Jam. FIRST UP! STADIUM STAGE: and FRIENDS #  pic.twitter.com/ Jamaican dancehall singers Charly Black and Konshens will also be performing on the Stadium Stage. The main stage performers will join the previously announced artists performing on the Festival Stage. D.R.A.M., Lil Yachty, Young M.A., Dave East, A Boogie + Don Q, PnB Rock, Casanova, and Phresher will be posting up on Summer Jam's second stage, as was revealed by Hot 97's announcement on April 24. Summer Jam 2017 will take place at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Tickets for the mid-June event will go on sale this Friday, April 28 at 12 p.m. (EST), so be prepared to hit up Ticketmaster on your lunch break.

Summer Jam is a little over a month away, and we finally know who's set to perform on the Stadium Stage at the Hot 97 showcase.

The big-name performers include Chris Brown, DJ Khaled and friends, French Montana and friends (the "and friends" in French's case, the station hinted, may include "somebody up in Canada"), Trey Songz, Desiigner, and many more.

The lineup also includes Funk Flex and friends, Joey Badass, Tory Lanez, Fat Joe and Remy Ma, and Jidenna. Plus, there will be a special 20-year tribute to the Notorious B.I.G. featuring Faith Evans and Mister Cee.

DJ Khaled was the first name announced, and he told Hot 97 on the air he was working on a bunch of "top secret" surprises in advance of Summer Jam.

Jamaican dancehall singers Charly Black and Konshens will also be performing on the Stadium Stage.

The main stage performers will join the previously announced artists performing on the Festival Stage. D.R.A.M., Lil Yachty, Young M.A., Dave East, A Boogie + Don Q, PnB Rock, Casanova, and Phresher will be posting up on Summer Jam's second stage, as was revealed by Hot 97's announcement on April 24.

Summer Jam 2017 will take place at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Tickets for the mid-June event will go on sale this Friday, April 28 at 12 p.m. (EST), so be prepared to hit up Ticketmaster on your lunch break.