Ivanka Trump booed and hissed after mentioning father Donald at summit in Germany
Ivanka Trump booed and hissed after mentioning father Donald at summit in Germany
Popular videos    Ivanka Trump clothing secretly sold under another brand      China warns North Korea not to pass 'point of no return'      What Marine Le Pen stepping down from the Front National really means      Music Box session #9 - The Away Days   Ivanka Trump has been booed and hissed at by an audience in Berlin after she praised Donald Trump ’s stance on women. During her first international outing as a White House advisor, the first daughter argued her father was "a tremendous champion of supporting families”. The statement immediately drew audible boos and rumbling from the audience who did not appear to agree with the assertion. Ms Trump, the President’s second child who is said to be his “favourite”, is in Germany for talks on encouraging women’s economic empowerment. When pressed about President Trump's past attitudes toward women during the W20 Summit, she told the audience: "I've certainly heard the criticism from the media, and that's been perpetuated." In pictures: Ivanka Trump's Washington DC home               In pictures: Ivanka Trump's Washington DC home    The front of the house    Zillow     The lobby    Zillow     The house exterior    Zillow     The patio    Zillow     The bedroom    Zillow     The living room    Zillow     The living area    Zillow     The Living Room    Zillow     The kitchen    Zillow     The living room    Zillow     The bathroom    Zillow     The living room    Zillow     The hall    Zillow  But Ms Trump, a former executive of the Trump Organisation, insisted her own personal experience and those of the "thousands" of women who have worked with Mr Trump for decades did not tally with the media's criticism. She said: "They are a testament to his belief and solid conviction in the potential of women and their ability to do the job as well as any man". The first daughter added: "He encouraged me and enabled me to thrive. I grew up in a house where there was no barrier to what I could accomplish beyond my own perseverance and my own tenacity." German Chancellor Angela Merkel also attended the panel discussion which focused on female empowerment in the global economy and entrepreneurship. The summit was a women-focused effort within the Group of 20 countries titled "Inspiring women: Scaling up women's entrepreneurship."   John Oliver destroys Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner Other guests include IMF director Christine Lagarde, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland and the Netherlands' Queen Maxima. During her trip, the first daughter will visit the German capital's memorial to the six million Jews murdered by the Nazis. Ms Trump converted to Orthodox Judaism before she married Jared Kushner, also an unpaid White House advisor, in 2009. The booing from the Berlin audience is by no means the first time Ms Trump has found herself subject to criticism. She was impersonated by Scarlett Johansson in a sketch cuttingly titled “complicit” last month. The actor's faux perfume advert which quickly went viral suggested the first daughter was complicit in the actions of the Trump administration. More about: Ivanka Trump Berlin Angela Merkel Comments

Ivanka Trump has been booed and hissed at by an audience in Berlin after she praised Donald Trump’s stance on women.

During her first international outing as a White House advisor, the first daughter argued her father was "a tremendous champion of supporting families”.

The statement immediately drew audible boos and rumbling from the audience who did not appear to agree with the assertion.

Ms Trump, the President’s second child who is said to be his “favourite”, is in Germany for talks on encouraging women’s economic empowerment.

When pressed about President Trump's past attitudes toward women during the W20 Summit, she told the audience: "I've certainly heard the criticism from the media, and that's been perpetuated."

In pictures: Ivanka Trump's Washington DC home







13 show all In pictures: Ivanka Trump's Washington DC home























1/13 The front of the house Zillow

2/13 The lobby Zillow

3/13 The house exterior Zillow

4/13 The patio Zillow

5/13 The bedroom Zillow

6/13 The living room Zillow

7/13 The living area Zillow

8/13 The Living Room Zillow

9/13 The kitchen Zillow

10/13 The living room Zillow

11/13 The bathroom Zillow

12/13 The living room Zillow

13/13 The hall Zillow

But Ms Trump, a former executive of the Trump Organisation, insisted her own personal experience and those of the "thousands" of women who have worked with Mr Trump for decades did not tally with the media's criticism.

She said: "They are a testament to his belief and solid conviction in the potential of women and their ability to do the job as well as any man".

The first daughter added: "He encouraged me and enabled me to thrive. I grew up in a house where there was no barrier to what I could accomplish beyond my own perseverance and my own tenacity."

German Chancellor Angela Merkel also attended the panel discussion which focused on female empowerment in the global economy and entrepreneurship. The summit was a women-focused effort within the Group of 20 countries titled "Inspiring women: Scaling up women's entrepreneurship."

Other guests include IMF director Christine Lagarde, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland and the Netherlands' Queen Maxima.

During her trip, the first daughter will visit the German capital's memorial to the six million Jews murdered by the Nazis. Ms Trump converted to Orthodox Judaism before she married Jared Kushner, also an unpaid White House advisor, in 2009.

The booing from the Berlin audience is by no means the first time Ms Trump has found herself subject to criticism. She was impersonated by Scarlett Johansson in a Saturday Night Live sketch cuttingly titled “complicit” last month. The actor's faux perfume advert which quickly went viral suggested the first daughter was complicit in the actions of the Trump administration.