Tanmay Bhat's Honest Apology To Sachin,Farhan-Adhuna Granted A Divorce And More From Ent
Tanmay Bhat's Honest Apology To Sachin,Farhan-Adhuna Granted A Divorce And More From Ent
Tanmay Bhat's Honest Apology To Sachin,Farhan-Adhuna Granted A Divorce And More From Ent 1. Farhan Akhtar And Adhuna Officially Part Ways After Bandra Family Court Grants Them Divorce The mid-day report has also quoted Farhan’s lawyer Fazaa Shroff-Garg saying, “The divorce by mutual consent was allowed by the family court in Bandra.” 2. Calling Sachin An Inspiration , Tanmay Bhat Pens A Heartfelt Apology To Him On His Birthday In his post, he wrote, "During the whole controversy, my father said something that truly made me sad. He said that I wasn't much of a crying child. But, he particularly remembers one day when I cried a lot. He was late while taking me to watch you play at the Wankhede. And the child that I was wouldn't stop sobbing until I reached the stadium to see you at the crease. Thank you for my childhood." 3. Kiku Sharda Reacts On Plagiarism Row, Says Team Can’t Keep A Track Of 'Who Cracks What Joke' Talking to TOI, he said, “We are a big team and brainstorm before every episode. Someone cracked this joke and we made it a part of the script. It is possible that the same idea came to our writers, or maybe they had heard it somewhere." 4. After Insurance, Akshay Kumar Is Now Rooting For Recognition Of Stunt Artists At Award Shows Expressing his opinion on the same, an agency report quoted the actor saying, "I am a stuntman first before an actor. For 10 years, I worked as a stuntman in Hindi film industry before getting the opportunity of acting. So I know how stuntmen risk their lives to earn their bread. I know what it takes to risk their lives to entertain us. So I think they should get equal respect even at the award shows for their work." 5. Sofia Hayat’s Wedding Pics Are No Less Than A Fairy Tale But Why Are They Giving Us GoT Feels? I cannot wait to marry you. We are blessed to have found each other. On Monday we join in our ancient Egyptian Indian West wedding..then again the week after in our Temple of Awakening Ceremony in my sacred Temple. Our 3 weddings honour all and everything. All in one. I love you infinitely @stanescu.association A post shared by Sofia Hayat. (Gaia Mother) (@sofiahayat) on Apr 22, 2017 at 2:38pm PDT   What is breaking the internet right now are the pictures from her wedding. Yes, the former model-actress has gotten married, and it was a grand affair.

1. Farhan Akhtar And Adhuna Officially Part Ways After Bandra Family Court Grants Them Divorce

Pinterest

The mid-day report has also quoted Farhan’s lawyer Fazaa Shroff-Garg saying, “The divorce by mutual consent was allowed by the family court in Bandra.”

2. Calling Sachin An Inspiration, Tanmay Bhat Pens A Heartfelt Apology To Him On His Birthday

Screenshot

In his post, he wrote, "During the whole controversy, my father said something that truly made me sad. He said that I wasn't much of a crying child. But, he particularly remembers one day when I cried a lot. He was late while taking me to watch you play at the Wankhede. And the child that I was wouldn't stop sobbing until I reached the stadium to see you at the crease. Thank you for my childhood."

3. Kiku Sharda Reacts On Plagiarism Row, Says Team Can’t Keep A Track Of 'Who Cracks What Joke'

Talking to TOI, he said, “We are a big team and brainstorm before every episode. Someone cracked this joke and we made it a part of the script. It is possible that the same idea came to our writers, or maybe they had heard it somewhere."

4. After Insurance, Akshay Kumar Is Now Rooting For Recognition Of Stunt Artists At Award Shows

Pinterest

Expressing his opinion on the same, an agency report quoted the actor saying, "I am a stuntman first before an actor. For 10 years, I worked as a stuntman in Hindi film industry before getting the opportunity of acting. So I know how stuntmen risk their lives to earn their bread. I know what it takes to risk their lives to entertain us. So I think they should get equal respect even at the award shows for their work."

5. Sofia Hayat’s Wedding Pics Are No Less Than A Fairy Tale But Why Are They Giving Us GoT Feels?

I cannot wait to marry you. We are blessed to have found each other. On Monday we join in our ancient Egyptian Indian West wedding..then again the week after in our Temple of Awakening Ceremony in my sacred Temple. Our 3 weddings honour all and everything. All in one. I love you infinitely @stanescu.association A post shared by Sofia Hayat. (Gaia Mother) (@sofiahayat) on Apr 22, 2017 at 2:38pm PDT

What is breaking the internet right now are the pictures from her wedding. Yes, the former model-actress has gotten married, and it was a grand affair.

Don't Miss 20.3 K SHARES 59.5 K SHARES 26.4 K SHARES