The Global Music Industry Grew By 6% In 2016, Signaling Brighter Days Ahead
The Global Music Industry Grew By 6% In 2016, Signaling Brighter Days Ahead
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Hugh McIntyre       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Kaboom Pics Photo courtesy of kaboompics.com. All things digital continue to rise when it comes to music, and while sales of albums and songs aren’t climbing, the unbelievable advances made in streaming more than compensate for any lost revenues. Digital is now responsible for exactly 50% of all music “sales,” a new high for the music industry, despite the end of the golden age of iTunes and the like. Within that sector, streaming is now responsible for 59% of all digital revenues, and that figure will continue to rise. The United States music industry grew more than the global average, climbing 7.6% since last year when the entire business only rose by a paltry 1%. Streaming income helped that percentage rise in 2016, as revenues from companies like Apple Music, Spotify and the like rose by an incredible 80%. Latin America's music industry enjoyed a 12% gain, which is the largest of any region in the world. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Kaboom Pics

After many years of decline, the global music industry is finally on the rebound. Thankfully, the upswing that started in 2015 after over a decade of downturn has continued through 2016, and things are looking even better than they were before.

According to the Global Music Report released by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, the music industry grew by just slightly under 6% in 2016. That might not sound like much, but it is actually the single largest increase since the international organization began reporting on the general health of the global music industry 20 years ago.

The global recorded music industry is now worth a reported $15.7 billion. The growth of the industry is due to the continued explosion of streaming. All things digital continue to rise when it comes to music, and while sales of albums and songs aren’t climbing, the unbelievable advances made in streaming more than compensate for any lost revenues. Digital is now responsible for exactly 50% of all music “sales,” a new high for the music industry, despite the end of the golden age of iTunes and the like. Within that sector, streaming is now responsible for 59% of all digital revenues, and that figure will continue to rise.

Watch On Forbes

Streaming revenues have skyrocketed for many years now, and 2016 was no different. The growing field experienced a 60% rise in revenues year-over-year, bringing streaming's total global sales to just under $4 billion. Paid music subscriptions worldwide are now up to 112 million users, taking into account all of the major players in the business. When including those who use streaming services but who don’t pay, opting for ad-supported tiers, that number increases by 100 million people and comes close to 250 million.

Both physical and digital pure sales are, unsurprisingly, down, with digital sales losing just over 20%, and physical slipping by 7%, despite the vinyl trend.

The United States music industry grew more than the global average, climbing 7.6% since last year when the entire business only rose by a paltry 1%. Streaming income helped that percentage rise in 2016, as revenues from companies like Apple Music, Spotify and the like rose by an incredible 80%. Latin America's music industry enjoyed a 12% gain, which is the largest of any region in the world.