Would You Spend $425 on Jeans With Fake Mud?
Would You Spend $425 on Jeans With Fake Mud? 
Ripped jeans are a controversial trend, as many can’t justify shelling out hard-earned money on destroyed clothing. While some might believe the jeans are one of the more outlandish denim trends out there, one of Nordstrom ‘s styles might be even more absurd. The product description for the peculiar denim style reads, “Heavily distressed medium-blue denim jeans in a comfortable straight-leg fit embody rugged, Americana workwear that’s seen some hard-working action with a crackled, caked-on muddy coating that shows you’re not afraid to get down and dirty.” Unsurprisingly, the straight-leg jeans, which are made in Portugal, have drawn a number of reactions on social media. Nordstrom is selling jeans w/ fake mud on them. $425! Don't. Understand. Any. Of. This. #dumb  pic.twitter.com/QlWmEJUm3Y — Ashley Carter (@AshleyLCarter1) April 25, 2017 If you ever wanna know what's wrong with this world just look at Nordstrom selling a $425 pair of fake mud jeans That's all folks — Steven (@StevenW99451879) April 25, 2017 What's the beef about buying mud jeans? If someone can afford $400 for a pair of dirty jeans, so what? Go for it! #Nordstrom — Lori Hendry (@Lrihendry) April 25, 2017 What. In. The. World. @Nordstrom makes & sells "muddy" jeans for $425.00 Go play in the mud if you want muddy jeans. https://t.co/5atbND2J0Y — James K. Forbis, Jr (@jforbis) April 25, 2017 Nordstrom selling Dirty Jeans for $425. What idiot will pay that price? Why not simply buy pair for $75, soak in mud after rain? Be Smart!☝ — Carlos Middleton Sr (@cavitermyr) April 25, 2017 Really Nordstrom? Selling $425 jeans with fake mud on them to create of an image of hard manual work. How out of touch can you be? 2oHSr2l — lyndamoyer (@lyndamoyer) April 25, 2017 #Nordstrom sells jeans with "fake" mud on them for $425 a pair!? #WOW What is this world coming to? I wanna see the guys that buy these ???????? pic.twitter.com/6yGSUJU7qf — Chris Rush (@rush10899) April 25, 2017 I LOVE @Nordstrom . Don't blame them that people are ACTUALLY buying these mud covered jeans… #ridiculous  pic.twitter.com/cut3VuUpKa — Jackie Paige (@JPaigeWWJ) April 25, 2017 Mike Rowe of the Discovery Channel series also weighed in on the controversial jeans in a lengthy Facebook post. “This morning, for your consideration, I offer further proof that our country’s war on work continues to rage in all corners of polite society,” his post begins. “Behold the latest assault from Nordstrom’s. The ‘Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans.’ Finally — a pair of jeans that look like they have been worn by someone with a dirty job…made for people who don’t. And you can have your very own pair for just $425.00.” Rowe wrote that the jeans are tied to a deeper meaning. “‘Rugged Americana’ is now synonymous with a ‘caked-on, muddy coating.’ Not real mud. Fake mud. Something to foster the illusion of work. The illusion of effort. Or perhaps, for those who actually buy them, the illusion of sanity,” he wrote. “The Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans aren’t pants. They’re not even fashion. They’re a costume for wealthy people who see work as ironic — not iconic.” He finished the post by crafting his own unique description of the fake-mud-covered denim. “If Nordstrom’s wants to carry them, the description would read something like this: ‘Finally — a pair of jeans for the hard-working gent who doesn’t want to actually wear them. The Borax Wash is so rugged and so manly, they don’t even need a human to hold them up! So sit back and relax, secure in the knowledge that your work pants can’t be folded or stored like other jeans. Show the world you mean business by owning the only jeans that can’t be worn! The jeans that can stand on their own!'” Rowe’s post was met with more than 27,000 likes and thousands of comments, with many users agreeing with the message behind the post. Nordstrom made headlines in March for selling Topshop’s MOTO Clear Panel Mom Jeans — high-waisted, light-wash denim jeans with clear knee panels. Reactions to the bizarre denim style flooded the Internet.

Ripped jeans are a controversial trend, as many can’t justify shelling out hard-earned money on destroyed clothing. While some might believe the jeans are one of the more outlandish denim trends out there, one of Nordstrom‘s styles might be even more absurd.

The company is selling a $425 pair of denim jeans with fake mud on the legs — dubbed the Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans — from designer PRPS.

Customers are sounding off about jeans sold by Nordstrom that feature fake mud. (Photo: Nordstrom) More

The product description for the peculiar denim style reads, “Heavily distressed medium-blue denim jeans in a comfortable straight-leg fit embody rugged, Americana workwear that’s seen some hard-working action with a crackled, caked-on muddy coating that shows you’re not afraid to get down and dirty.”

Unsurprisingly, the straight-leg jeans, which are made in Portugal, have drawn a number of reactions on social media.

Nordstrom is selling jeans w/ fake mud on them. $425! Don't. Understand. Any. Of. This. #dumb pic.twitter.com/QlWmEJUm3Y — Ashley Carter (@AshleyLCarter1) April 25, 2017





If you ever wanna know what's wrong with this world just look at Nordstrom selling a $425 pair of fake mud jeans That's all folks — Steven (@StevenW99451879) April 25, 2017





What's the beef about buying mud jeans? If someone can afford $400 for a pair of dirty jeans, so what? Go for it! #Nordstrom — Lori Hendry (@Lrihendry) April 25, 2017





What. In. The. World. @Nordstrom makes & sells "muddy" jeans for $425.00 Go play in the mud if you want muddy jeans. https://t.co/5atbND2J0Y — James K. Forbis, Jr (@jforbis) April 25, 2017





Nordstrom selling Dirty Jeans for $425. What idiot will pay that price? Why not simply buy pair for $75, soak in mud after rain? Be Smart!☝ — Carlos Middleton Sr (@cavitermyr) April 25, 2017





Really Nordstrom? Selling $425 jeans with fake mud on them to create of an image of hard manual work. How out of touch can you be? 2oHSr2l — lyndamoyer (@lyndamoyer) April 25, 2017





#Nordstrom sells jeans with "fake" mud on them for $425 a pair!? #WOW What is this world coming to? I wanna see the guys that buy these ???????? pic.twitter.com/6yGSUJU7qf — Chris Rush (@rush10899) April 25, 2017





I LOVE @Nordstrom. Don't blame them that people are ACTUALLY buying these mud covered jeans… #ridiculous pic.twitter.com/cut3VuUpKa — Jackie Paige (@JPaigeWWJ) April 25, 2017





Mike Rowe of the Discovery Channel series Dirty Jobs also weighed in on the controversial jeans in a lengthy Facebook post.

“This morning, for your consideration, I offer further proof that our country’s war on work continues to rage in all corners of polite society,” his post begins. “Behold the latest assault from Nordstrom’s. The ‘Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans.’ Finally — a pair of jeans that look like they have been worn by someone with a dirty job…made for people who don’t. And you can have your very own pair for just $425.00.”

Rowe wrote that the jeans are tied to a deeper meaning. “‘Rugged Americana’ is now synonymous with a ‘caked-on, muddy coating.’ Not real mud. Fake mud. Something to foster the illusion of work. The illusion of effort. Or perhaps, for those who actually buy them, the illusion of sanity,” he wrote. “The Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans aren’t pants. They’re not even fashion. They’re a costume for wealthy people who see work as ironic — not iconic.”

He finished the post by crafting his own unique description of the fake-mud-covered denim.

“If Nordstrom’s wants to carry them, the description would read something like this: ‘Finally — a pair of jeans for the hard-working gent who doesn’t want to actually wear them. The Borax Wash is so rugged and so manly, they don’t even need a human to hold them up! So sit back and relax, secure in the knowledge that your work pants can’t be folded or stored like other jeans. Show the world you mean business by owning the only jeans that can’t be worn! The jeans that can stand on their own!'”