Pavlich: 'Dishonest' Flynn Should Never Have Been Picked for Trump Cabinet

Pavlich: 'Dishonest' Flynn Should Never Have Been Picked for Trump Cabinet // Katie Pavlich said today that it's clear Michael Flynn was "very dishonest" and should not have been chosen as President Trump's national security adviser. Flynn, who resigned just a few weeks into the Trump administration, may have violated the law by not disclosing payments for foreign work, according to statements today by two senior House lawmakers. Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), the chairman and ranking member, respectively, on the Oversight Committee, said Flynn did not ask permission or inform the government about payments he got for appearances before Russian organizations in 2015 and for lobbying that helped Turkey's government. He could now face criminal prosecution. "That money needs to be recovered," said Chaffetz. "You simply cannot take money from Russia, Turkey or anybody else." Pavlich and Democrat strategist Simon Rosenberg discussed the latest developments on "America's News HQ," with Pavlich highlighting the fact that Flynn is a continuing distraction for the White House. Rosenberg said the allegation that Flynn committed crimes is a new development and his prosecution appears likely. "The question then becomes, does he turn? Does he start turning in other people in the administration who may have done other things?" said Rosenberg, pointing out reports that Jared Kushner did not disclose meetings with Russians on his security clearance forms. Pavlich said there's a clear difference between what Flynn and Kushner are alleged to have done and that Flynn's alleged actions are far more serious. Watch the discussion above.

Katie Pavlich said today that it's clear Michael Flynn was "very dishonest" and should not have been chosen as President Trump's national security adviser.

Flynn, who resigned just a few weeks into the Trump administration, may have violated the law by not disclosing payments for foreign work, according to statements today by two senior House lawmakers.

Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), the chairman and ranking member, respectively, on the Oversight Committee, said Flynn did not ask permission or inform the government about payments he got for appearances before Russian organizations in 2015 and for lobbying that helped Turkey's government.

He could now face criminal prosecution.

"That money needs to be recovered," said Chaffetz. "You simply cannot take money from Russia, Turkey or anybody else."

Pavlich and Democrat strategist Simon Rosenberg discussed the latest developments on "America's News HQ," with Pavlich highlighting the fact that Flynn is a continuing distraction for the White House.

Rosenberg said the allegation that Flynn committed crimes is a new development and his prosecution appears likely.

"The question then becomes, does he turn? Does he start turning in other people in the administration who may have done other things?" said Rosenberg, pointing out reports that Jared Kushner did not disclose meetings with Russians on his security clearance forms.

Pavlich said there's a clear difference between what Flynn and Kushner are alleged to have done and that Flynn's alleged actions are far more serious.

Watch the discussion above.

Make Profanity Great Again? Cursing Is Becoming a Staple of Dems' Rhetoric

5 Things You Didn't Know About Melissa Francis

LOOK: Dem Lawmaker Trolls Trump With 'Trump-Putin 2016' T-Shirt