Los Angeles Mayor Declares Today 'La La Land' Day
Los Angeles Mayor Declares Today 'La La Land' Day
Jenni Rivera's Family on New Telemundo Series, Univision Lawsuits and More at BB Latin Music Conference Annalisa Talks Crossing Over Into Spanish at 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Silvestre Dangond Talks Importance of Collaborations at 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference: Watch More Exclusive Coverage on The Billboard Latin Music Awards on Telemundo Los Angeles Mayor Declares Today 'La La Land' Day  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Los Angeles' mayor has proclaimed Tuesday (April 25) is day, as acrobats suspended by ropes danced their way across the outside walls of City Hall. Mayor Eric Garcetti proclaimed the honor for the musical that claimed six Academy Awards in February and put a spotlight on various locales throughout the city with elaborate song-and-dance numbers. Garcetti played the piano while a band played a medley of songs from the film, including "City of Stars."  Garcetti honored the film's Oscar-winning director, Damien Chazelle, and producers of the film about a young couple struggling to achieve their dreams in Los Angeles. The film received a record-tying 14 Oscar nominations and was briefly announced as the best picture winner before the actual winner, , was correctly announced.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti performs at the "La La Land Day" celebration at Los Angeles City Hall on April 25, 2016 in Los Angeles.

Los Angeles' mayor has proclaimed Tuesday (April 25) is La La Land day, as acrobats suspended by ropes danced their way across the outside walls of City Hall.

Mayor Eric Garcetti proclaimed the honor for the musical that claimed six Academy Awards in February and put a spotlight on various locales throughout the city with elaborate song-and-dance numbers. Garcetti played the piano while a band played a medley of songs from the film, including "City of Stars."

Garcetti honored the film's Oscar-winning director, Damien Chazelle, and producers of the film about a young couple struggling to achieve their dreams in Los Angeles.

The film received a record-tying 14 Oscar nominations and was briefly announced as the best picture winner before the actual winner, Moonlight, was correctly announced.