Dr. Luke Out As Kemosabe CEO, But Remains At Sony Music
Dr. Luke Out As Kemosabe CEO, But Remains At Sony Music
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Melinda Newman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP Rumors that Dr. Luke is not affiliated with Sony are untrue. Embattled producer Dr. Luke (Lukasz Gottwald) is no longer CEO of Kemosabe Records, but he continues his relationship with Sony in an unspecified capacity. I have learned that Dr. Luke’s contract as CEO of Kemosabe, the label he and Sony founded in 2011, expired in March and was not renewed. However, reports that he is no longer affiliated with Sony are untrue, according to sources who declined to be identified and would not define his ongoing role. For the past two and a half years ago, Dr. Luke and his protege/Kemosabe artist Kesha have been locked in "she said, he said" legal battles following her initial accusations of sexual assault and inappropriate control over her career. In turn, Dr. Luke filed a defamation suit again Kesha and in February claimed that Kesha owes his company $1.3 million in ancillary royalties from licensing usage of her name and likeness, according to the Hollywood Reporter. Having had her previous injunctions denied, most recently, Kesha is trying to get released from her Kemosabe contract citing California’s decades-old Seven Year Rule, which stated that Hollywood studios cannot hold actors to long-term contracts, but has never been adjudicated for recording artists. Kesha’s last EP for Kemosabe, , came out in February 2013 and served as a bonus disc to a reissue of her 2012 album, Kemosabe’s latest release was rapper Lil Bibby’s EP, , which came out in March. Among the artists Dr. Luke has worked with are Kelly Clarkson, Katy Perry, Britney Spears, Nicki Minaj and Avril Lavigne. Reps for Sony and Dr. Luke declined to comment. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP

Embattled producer Dr. Luke (Lukasz Gottwald) is no longer CEO of Kemosabe Records, but he continues his relationship with Sony in an unspecified capacity.

I have learned that Dr. Luke’s contract as CEO of Kemosabe, the label he and Sony founded in 2011, expired in March and was not renewed. However, reports that he is no longer affiliated with Sony are untrue, according to sources who declined to be identified and would not define his ongoing role.

For the past two and a half years ago, Dr. Luke and his protege/Kemosabe artist Kesha have been locked in "she said, he said" legal battles following her initial accusations of sexual assault and inappropriate control over her career. In turn, Dr. Luke filed a defamation suit again Kesha and in February claimed that Kesha owes his company $1.3 million in ancillary royalties from licensing usage of her name and likeness, according to the Hollywood Reporter. Having had her previous injunctions denied, most recently, Kesha is trying to get released from her Kemosabe contract citing California’s decades-old Seven Year Rule, which stated that Hollywood studios cannot hold actors to long-term contracts, but has never been adjudicated for recording artists.

Kesha’s last EP for Kemosabe, Deconstructed, came out in February 2013 and served as a bonus disc to a reissue of her 2012 album, Warrior. Kemosabe’s latest release was rapper Lil Bibby’s EP, FC3: The Epilogue, which came out in March.

Among the artists Dr. Luke has worked with are Kelly Clarkson, Katy Perry, Britney Spears, Nicki Minaj and Avril Lavigne.

Reps for Sony and Dr. Luke declined to comment.