Nordstrom Charging $425 for Fake-Mud Jeans

Nordstrom Charging $425 for Fake-Mud Jeans // Fashion retailer Nordstrom is selling a pair of $425 jeans that allegedly show "you're not afraid to get down and dirty." The "Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans," which come with a "caked-on muddy coating," have been roundly mocked on social media, with Mike Rowe remarking that the jeans are intended to make someone appear like they have a dirty job when they do not. "The Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans aren’t pants. They’re not even fashion. They’re a costume for wealthy people who see work as ironic – not iconic," Rowe wrote on Facebook.  On "Fox & Friends" this morning, Brian Kilmeade echoed Rowe's sentiment, saying that if you're going to wear muddy jeans, you should earn the mud. He noted that the description on the Nordstrom website says the jeans "embody rugged, Americana workwear that's seen some hard-working action with a crackled, caked-on muddy coating that shows you're not afraid to get down and dirty." "But yet you are afraid, because you have to buy somebody else's dirt," Kilmeade said. "It's for the trust fund baby. It's for the kid who inherits the millions of dollars, the kid who doesn't want to work hard and wants to go into Nordstrom, pay a lot of money and act like they work," Ainsley Eardhardt said. Steve Doocy said "hats off" to Nordstrom if they really can get $425 for these jeans, which are made in Portugal. "If got a closet full of clothes that could look just like that in about half an hour," Doocy said. "If it works out, I'm going in to business too!" See more reaction from the "Fox & Friends" co-hosts above.

Fashion retailer Nordstrom is selling a pair of $425 jeans that allegedly show "you're not afraid to get down and dirty."

The "Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans," which come with a "caked-on muddy coating," have been roundly mocked on social media, with Mike Rowe remarking that the jeans are intended to make someone appear like they have a dirty job when they do not.

"The Barracuda Straight Leg Jeans aren’t pants. They’re not even fashion. They’re a costume for wealthy people who see work as ironic – not iconic," Rowe wrote on Facebook.

On "Fox & Friends" this morning, Brian Kilmeade echoed Rowe's sentiment, saying that if you're going to wear muddy jeans, you should earn the mud.

He noted that the description on the Nordstrom website says the jeans "embody rugged, Americana workwear that's seen some hard-working action with a crackled, caked-on muddy coating that shows you're not afraid to get down and dirty."

"But yet you are afraid, because you have to buy somebody else's dirt," Kilmeade said.

"It's for the trust fund baby. It's for the kid who inherits the millions of dollars, the kid who doesn't want to work hard and wants to go into Nordstrom, pay a lot of money and act like they work," Ainsley Eardhardt said.

Steve Doocy said "hats off" to Nordstrom if they really can get $425 for these jeans, which are made in Portugal.

"If got a closet full of clothes that could look just like that in about half an hour," Doocy said. "If it works out, I'm going in to business too!"

See more reaction from the "Fox & Friends" co-hosts above.

'The Five' Kicks Off With a Look at 100 Days of Liberals Losing Their Minds

Sharia Law Advocate to Give Commencement Speech at Taxpayer-Funded University

Tucker Debuts at 8 PM ET, Talks Exclusively with Caitlyn Jenner

No Regrets: 96 Percent of Trump Voters Stand By Their Decision