Instant Awesome: 101-year-old woman wins gold in 100-meter dash
Instant Awesome: 101-year-old woman wins gold in 100-meter dash
Instant Awesome: 101-year-old woman wins gold in 100-meter dash Trail Blazers share hilarious live tweets during Game 4 loss Racing world reacts to Earnhardt Jr.'s retirement announcement Vote: How will Adrian Peterson perform with the Saints? Larry Bird drives an Indy car in New York City Vote: Who would pose a bigger threat to the Cavs in the second round? Family on plane calls Mohamed Sanu an 'inspiration to children' Vote: How do you expect each NBA playoff first-round series to end? Vote: Regarding the NBA schedule and player rest, which best describes what you would want to see? Rank 'Em: How would you draft this year's top quarterbacks? Vote: What was the biggest surprise from this weekend's Game 1s? MLB fan survey says ... baseball ISN'T boring and your team is awesome It's spring break at Baker's Bay for Rickie Fowler, Smylie Kaufman, Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas Vote: Which teams will advance in the NBA playoffs? Vote: What is your opinion of John Calipari? Vote: What should the Browns do with the No. 1 pick? Vote: Who should win the 2016-17 NBA awards? Man Kaur, the only runner in her age division, completes the 100-meter dash at the World Masters Games in New Zealand. (0:58) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Winning a gold medal is a huge achievement to which many athletes dedicate their whole lives. For one woman, that achievement was accomplished when she was more than 100 years old. Meet Man Kaur, a 101-year-old athlete from India who took home the gold in the 100-meter dash at the World Masters Games in New Zealand. Yes, Kaur was the only runner in her age division. But completing a 100-meter dash at her age -- let alone competing at the World Masters Games -- is nothing short of amazing. Kaur is the oldest athlete at the multi-sport event, according to CNN. Kaur completed the race in 1 minute, 14 seconds and has been dubbed the "miracle from Chandigarh" in New Zealand's media, according to BBC. Even more incredibly, Kaur began her athletic career at age 93, BBC reported. The event is held every four years and is designed for people of varying abilities, generally over the age of 35. The event has been labeled by many as the Olympics for veterans, according to CNN. Kaur doesn't plan on stopping with the 100-meter race. According to CNN, she intends to compete in the 200 meters, javelin and shot put in New Zealand and says she will "keep rocking." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Man Kaur, the only runner in her age division, completes the 100-meter dash at the World Masters Games in New Zealand. (0:58)

Winning a gold medal is a huge achievement to which many athletes dedicate their whole lives. For one woman, that achievement was accomplished when she was more than 100 years old.

Meet Man Kaur, a 101-year-old athlete from India who took home the gold in the 100-meter dash at the World Masters Games in New Zealand.

Yes, Kaur was the only runner in her age division. But completing a 100-meter dash at her age -- let alone competing at the World Masters Games -- is nothing short of amazing. Kaur is the oldest athlete at the multi-sport event, according to CNN.

Man Kaur, age 101, celebrates after competing in the 100m sprint in the 100-plus age category at the World Masters Games in New Zealand. AFP PHOTO / MICHAEL BRADLEYMICHAEL BRADLEY/AFP/Getty Images

Kaur completed the race in 1 minute, 14 seconds and has been dubbed the "miracle from Chandigarh" in New Zealand's media, according to BBC.

Even more incredibly, Kaur began her athletic career at age 93, BBC reported.

The event is held every four years and is designed for people of varying abilities, generally over the age of 35. The event has been labeled by many as the Olympics for veterans, according to CNN.

Kaur doesn't plan on stopping with the 100-meter race. According to CNN, she intends to compete in the 200 meters, javelin and shot put in New Zealand and says she will "keep rocking."