Shania Twain Announces New Single 'Life's About to Get Good,' First Album in 15 Years
Shania Twain Announces New Single 'Life's About to Get Good,' First Album in 15 Years
Jenni Rivera's Family on New Telemundo Series, Univision Lawsuits and More at BB Latin Music Conference Annalisa Talks Crossing Over Into Spanish at 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Silvestre Dangond Talks Importance of Collaborations at 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference: Watch More Exclusive Coverage on The Billboard Latin Music Awards on Telemundo Shania Twain Announces New Single 'Life's About to Get Good,' First Album in 15 Years  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Shania Twain has announced plans to release her first album in 15 years, led by the single "Life's About to Get Good" that's scheduled to arrive in June.Â The title for the new set has not yet been revealed; it is due out in September.Â Twain made the announcement during her appearance on Monday night , where she appeared as the first-time-ever fifth judge on the show and a key adviser to the contestants.Â  When writing "Life's About to Get Good," Twain explained in a statement, "I was at home looking out at the ocean and I said to myself, 'Here I am stuck in this past of negativity, but it's so beautiful out. I'm not in the mood to write a 'feeling-sorry-for-myself' song.... You can't have the good without the bad. And that's what the song ended up being about." Twain's last album,Â , was released Nov. 18, 2002 and topped the Billboard 200 albums chart.Â Guests at Stagecoach Festival in Indio, California, will be the first to hear Twain's new material, as she headlines the country music extravaganza this weekend.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Shania Twain has announced plans to release her first album in 15 years, led by the single "Life's About to Get Good" that's scheduled to arrive in June.Â

The title for the new set has not yet been revealed; it is due out in September.Â

Twain made the announcement during her appearance on The Voice Monday night, where she appeared as the first-time-ever fifth judge on the show and a key adviser to the contestants.Â

When writing "Life's About to Get Good," Twain explained in a statement, "I was at home looking out at the ocean and I said to myself, 'Here I am stuck in this past of negativity, but it's so beautiful out. I'm not in the mood to write a 'feeling-sorry-for-myself' song.... You can't have the good without the bad. And that's what the song ended up being about."

Twain's last album,Â Up!, was released Nov. 18, 2002 and topped the Billboard 200 albums chart.Â

Guests at Stagecoach Festival in Indio, California, will be the first to hear Twain's new material, as she headlines the country music extravaganza this weekend.Â