Border wall talk leads top Mexican official to float American entry fee
Border wall talk leads top Mexican official to float American entry fee
Border security Border wall talk leads top Mexican official to float American entry fee In this March 29, 2017 file photo, a youth looks at a new, taller fence being built along U.S.-Mexico border, replacing the shorter, gray metal fence in front of it, in the Anapra neighborhood of Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, across the border from Sunland Park, New Mexico. 
	                        
	                        	 (AP) A top Mexican official on Tuesday said that Mexico may consider charging a fee for Americans entering the country in what could be seen as a retaliation to President Trump's call for a border wall. Foreign Secretary Luis Videgaray, in a meeting with Mexico's top legislators, called Trump's plan an "unfriendly, hostile" act, and called on his colleagues to consider the entry fee. "We could explore — not necessarily a visa, that could impede a lot of people from coming to Mexico — but we could perhaps (have) a fee associated with entry,” Videgaray said. “This is something that I'm sure will be part of our discussion, and I believe we can find points of agreement." Videgaray went on to say that Mexico would not pay a cent toward the wall. He said if talks between the U.S. and Mexico fail to satisfy both countries, the Mexican government would consider reducing security cooperation. "If the negotiation on other themes — immigration, the border, trade — isn't satisfactory to Mexico's interests, we will have to review our existing cooperation," Videgaray said. "This would be especially in the security areas ... and that involves the national immigration agency, the federal police and of course, the armed forces." Trump has asked Congress to include a down payment on the wall in the spending bill but because of scrutiny from both sides, President Trump announced Monday that he’d be willing to wait until September to revisit the issue of funding; however, his stance on Mexico’s role in paying for the wall hasn’t changed.  Full Senate heads to rare classified meeting at the White House on North Korea   Conway on 'Hannity': Trump has 'great record of accomplishments' in first 100 days   Trump tax plan reportedly would cut small business rate to 15 percent   Senate confirms Rod Rosenstein as deputy AG; will lead Russia probe   Top White House aides, GOP leaders meet on Hill over Trump’s tax plan  Sponsored Stories You May Like             Trump should show some spine and stand his ground on the wall money, or go to Mexico and get the money, or something. He is just showing indecision and weakness. You FOOLISH Trumptards,Get it through your Neanderthal brains,"There Will be NO Wall,Period!" In the 100 day contract his campaign published (now not so important, I guess) he promised to get 10 major legislative initiatives passed. Of the 10, none have passed, and 9 haven't even gotten to Congress. We have never seen incompetence on this level. @ Lots of us we see it. Trump supporters seem to be blind to this level of incompetence and backpedalling. Build our wall, NOW!  Trump is demonstrating true leadership: Compromise, reaching out to the opposition party, looking out for all American citizens. The Trump-haters will never see it that way- to them, the glass is always half-empty when it comes to President Trump...  @ Could you please point to me where he is compromising? It seems to me that he has taken a paper and pen and said, anything that was done under Bill Clinton and Obama I will fight to reverse. It doesn't matter if the American people suffer. I will just, without reason or justification just revert, national monuments, clean air, whatever. Let them breath smog, that's what Trump says. But, please, illustrate me. I would like to see the glass half full if I could see how is is looking out for all Americans. Do you know one clue for a president that really wants to reach across the aisle. That president put people in the cabinet from both parties, and looks for centrist supreme court nominees. What did we get, the most extreme people for cabinet and a right of center supreme court nominee.  BIAS ALERT   Honorable Jeff Sessions just made an announcement which would have a great impact to reduce the federal budget. He has presented a "legal" basis to deny healthcare benefits to the coal mine workers who suffer from black lung disease and, hence, GREAT savings in the federal budget.  Honorable Attorney General argument is that those who suffer from "black lungs" are "black" inside. Hence, they are not "White" folks. Meanwhile, an Executive Order by President Andrew Jackson in 1830 denies "Blacks" of any citizenship rights. Orange Herpes has "reactivated" that EO. As a result, the coal miners in West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, etc., who are "legally" BLACK, are not US citizens and cannot receive any federal benefits.  "Budges"?  He folded like wet cardboard. Pay for the wall with confiscated illegal drug money from the Mexican Cartels. @ Pay for the wall with volunteer contributions by Trump supporters.  Mr. President, you can declare a National Security emergency related to our borders' security and direct the USA Army to build the "WALL". Our Army could build the "WALL" within 60 days! Guarantee!    @ So much for "dolphin-safe" labeling. He should not back down! @ Shoulda, woulda, coulda... @ He did. Democratic politicians are so full of anger and hate, that they are willing to vote against issues that they have voted for in the past, just to harm Trump.  In doing so, they are harming the American people for their own political gain. @ Sounds familiar. 8 years of republicans not compromising with Obama. @  @ Plus, GOP controls both Senate and House. Apparently, all closet lefties. RINOs need to be taken off the endangered species list immediately. They are alive and thriving in Washington D.C. The 60 vote margin required for cloture to bring a bill to the senate floor for a simple majority up or down decision is being used as a means of preserving the status quot. The protocol was circumvented to confirm Neil Gorsuch, and it should be quashed to allow simple up or down votes, and put legislators on record that bucked stated party positions.  @ You voted to keep this swamp. @ Spelling not your strong point? @ I love it when a poster insults Trump's intelligence with a totally illiterate comment. Thanks, for the laugh.  @ Please return to your planet. Planet Moron was it.?   NO WALL.  TRUMP LIES.  @ When democrats obstruct Trump's goals and what the people voted for, it is not a lie.  When you tell someone you can keep your doctor, and an attack was about a video, just to get re elected, you have told a lie.  @  @ Republicans NEVER tried this tactic with Obama.   @  @ Trump doesn't know how government works? It's called democracy. This is Fake news, some people will do anything. Just like the first 100 days, add all Trump has proposed and added it, the left stopped funding and security. Just the right thing to do, right left? @ Donnie's the one who said he would do things in his first 100 days, but he forgot he is not emporer. In America we have a senate and congress. Perhaps he should've read that constitution. @  @ But, Congress is controlled by GOP... Guess Republicans still haven't accepted Mr. Independent as one of their own. Border wall funding was just a very weak attempt to add a negotiation 'throwaway" to a funding budget. The wall is not happening and they will just kick the funding can down the road for a month or two. Seems like the only thing the Trumpkin can get through congress is a lot of hot air. Wonder if all those RepubliKKKlan swamp gators are swampin' out the congress?  @ That is what your politician bubbies would do, remember Trump was elected to end the hold of D.C. @  @ By the electoral college, not by the majority of the people. Congress doesn't have an electoral college election. @ Trump is great and will do great if he can get around all the stupid liberals that are bring down our country .... @  @ He is so great that he has kept every single campaign promise... next year. @  @ Obama was great and would've done greater things if he could've gotten around all the stupid conservatives that bring our country down... Venezuela was the Crown jewel of South America twenty years ago. Liberal-Progressive politicians utterly destroyed the place.   @ A Dictator is always a Dictator, no matter their intentions. And remember the Golden Rule.   Orange Herpes just tweeted that he has come up with a plan that would provide: a) a legitimate spending cut; and b) an income source for the "owners" of the coal mining companies.  His Highness' plan is based on the fact that the coal miners "stole" coal via inhaling when they worked in the coal mines and "hiding" the coal in their lungs; this is a "criminal" act. As a result, they are no longer eligible to receive retirement healthcare benefits; the "Black-Lung" healthcare benefits would be removed from the budget. Furthermore, the coal miners have to monetary compensate the coal mine owners for the coal that they stole. They will also be prosecuted by Honorable Jeff Sessions for committing theft.  Orange Herpes and the owners of the coal companies will work out the details over a game of golf in Mar-a-Lago.  @ Fake news! @  @ You Liberals are jealous of our Great Leader's achievements. Shame on you snowflakes. Go eat your corn flakes with whisky.   @ you're such an ignorant fool, I think your new name should be Oral Herpes.   @  @ Good guess!. My name is "Oral Syphilis" ...  If this ever puts this in the budget it is a Failure on his key campaign promise to have Mexico fund it. Also it should cost under $20M total. His promises @ Obama and Holder are the herpes spreaders. They have Aids too.  @ Sorry to hear, you have lost the will to live.  Full Senate heads to rare classified meeting at the White House on North Korea   Conway on 'Hannity': Trump has 'great record of accomplishments' in first 100 days   Trump tax plan reportedly would cut small business rate to 15 percent   Senate confirms Rod Rosenstein as deputy AG; will lead Russia probe   Top White House aides, GOP leaders meet on Hill over Trump’s tax plan  Sponsored Stories You May Like             Trump should show some spine and stand his ground on the wall money, or go to Mexico and get the money, or something. He is just showing indecision and weakness. You FOOLISH Trumptards,Get it through your Neanderthal brains,"There Will be NO Wall,Period!" In the 100 day contract his campaign published (now not so important, I guess) he promised to get 10 major legislative initiatives passed. Of the 10, none have passed, and 9 haven't even gotten to Congress. We have never seen incompetence on this level. @ Lots of us we see it. Trump supporters seem to be blind to this level of incompetence and backpedalling. Build our wall, NOW!  Trump is demonstrating true leadership: Compromise, reaching out to the opposition party, looking out for all American citizens. The Trump-haters will never see it that way- to them, the glass is always half-empty when it comes to President Trump...  @ Could you please point to me where he is compromising? It seems to me that he has taken a paper and pen and said, anything that was done under Bill Clinton and Obama I will fight to reverse. It doesn't matter if the American people suffer. I will just, without reason or justification just revert, national monuments, clean air, whatever. Let them breath smog, that's what Trump says. But, please, illustrate me. I would like to see the glass half full if I could see how is is looking out for all Americans. Do you know one clue for a president that really wants to reach across the aisle. That president put people in the cabinet from both parties, and looks for centrist supreme court nominees. What did we get, the most extreme people for cabinet and a right of center supreme court nominee.  BIAS ALERT   Honorable Jeff Sessions just made an announcement which would have a great impact to reduce the federal budget. He has presented a "legal" basis to deny healthcare benefits to the coal mine workers who suffer from black lung disease and, hence, GREAT savings in the federal budget.  Honorable Attorney General argument is that those who suffer from "black lungs" are "black" inside. Hence, they are not "White" folks. Meanwhile, an Executive Order by President Andrew Jackson in 1830 denies "Blacks" of any citizenship rights. Orange Herpes has "reactivated" that EO. As a result, the coal miners in West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, etc., who are "legally" BLACK, are not US citizens and cannot receive any federal benefits.  "Budges"?  He folded like wet cardboard. Pay for the wall with confiscated illegal drug money from the Mexican Cartels. @ Pay for the wall with volunteer contributions by Trump supporters.  Mr. President, you can declare a National Security emergency related to our borders' security and direct the USA Army to build the "WALL". Our Army could build the "WALL" within 60 days! Guarantee!    @ So much for "dolphin-safe" labeling. He should not back down! @ Shoulda, woulda, coulda... @ He did. Democratic politicians are so full of anger and hate, that they are willing to vote against issues that they have voted for in the past, just to harm Trump.  In doing so, they are harming the American people for their own political gain. @ Sounds familiar. 8 years of republicans not compromising with Obama. @  @ Plus, GOP controls both Senate and House. Apparently, all closet lefties. RINOs need to be taken off the endangered species list immediately. They are alive and thriving in Washington D.C. The 60 vote margin required for cloture to bring a bill to the senate floor for a simple majority up or down decision is being used as a means of preserving the status quot. The protocol was circumvented to confirm Neil Gorsuch, and it should be quashed to allow simple up or down votes, and put legislators on record that bucked stated party positions.  @ You voted to keep this swamp. @ Spelling not your strong point? @ I love it when a poster insults Trump's intelligence with a totally illiterate comment. Thanks, for the laugh.  @ Please return to your planet. Planet Moron was it.?   NO WALL.  TRUMP LIES.  @ When democrats obstruct Trump's goals and what the people voted for, it is not a lie.  When you tell someone you can keep your doctor, and an attack was about a video, just to get re elected, you have told a lie.  @  @ Republicans NEVER tried this tactic with Obama.   @  @ Trump doesn't know how government works? It's called democracy. This is Fake news, some people will do anything. Just like the first 100 days, add all Trump has proposed and added it, the left stopped funding and security. Just the right thing to do, right left? @ Donnie's the one who said he would do things in his first 100 days, but he forgot he is not emporer. In America we have a senate and congress. Perhaps he should've read that constitution. @  @ But, Congress is controlled by GOP... Guess Republicans still haven't accepted Mr. Independent as one of their own. Border wall funding was just a very weak attempt to add a negotiation 'throwaway" to a funding budget. The wall is not happening and they will just kick the funding can down the road for a month or two. Seems like the only thing the Trumpkin can get through congress is a lot of hot air. Wonder if all those RepubliKKKlan swamp gators are swampin' out the congress?  @ That is what your politician bubbies would do, remember Trump was elected to end the hold of D.C. @  @ By the electoral college, not by the majority of the people. Congress doesn't have an electoral college election. @ Trump is great and will do great if he can get around all the stupid liberals that are bring down our country .... @  @ He is so great that he has kept every single campaign promise... next year. @  @ Obama was great and would've done greater things if he could've gotten around all the stupid conservatives that bring our country down... Venezuela was the Crown jewel of South America twenty years ago. Liberal-Progressive politicians utterly destroyed the place.   @ A Dictator is always a Dictator, no matter their intentions. And remember the Golden Rule.   Orange Herpes just tweeted that he has come up with a plan that would provide: a) a legitimate spending cut; and b) an income source for the "owners" of the coal mining companies.  His Highness' plan is based on the fact that the coal miners "stole" coal via inhaling when they worked in the coal mines and "hiding" the coal in their lungs; this is a "criminal" act. As a result, they are no longer eligible to receive retirement healthcare benefits; the "Black-Lung" healthcare benefits would be removed from the budget. Furthermore, the coal miners have to monetary compensate the coal mine owners for the coal that they stole. They will also be prosecuted by Honorable Jeff Sessions for committing theft.  Orange Herpes and the owners of the coal companies will work out the details over a game of golf in Mar-a-Lago.  @ Fake news! @  @ You Liberals are jealous of our Great Leader's achievements. Shame on you snowflakes. Go eat your corn flakes with whisky.   @ you're such an ignorant fool, I think your new name should be Oral Herpes.   @  @ Good guess!. My name is "Oral Syphilis" ...  If this ever puts this in the budget it is a Failure on his key campaign promise to have Mexico fund it. Also it should cost under $20M total. His promises @ Obama and Holder are the herpes spreaders. They have Aids too.  @ Sorry to hear, you have lost the will to live.

A top Mexican official on Tuesday said that Mexico may consider charging a fee for Americans entering the country in what could be seen as a retaliation to President Trump's call for a border wall.

Foreign Secretary Luis Videgaray, in a meeting with Mexico's top legislators, called Trump's plan an "unfriendly, hostile" act, and called on his colleagues to consider the entry fee.

"We could explore — not necessarily a visa, that could impede a lot of people from coming to Mexico — but we could perhaps (have) a fee associated with entry,” Videgaray said. “This is something that I'm sure will be part of our discussion, and I believe we can find points of agreement."

Videgaray went on to say that Mexico would not pay a cent toward the wall. He said if talks between the U.S. and Mexico fail to satisfy both countries, the Mexican government would consider reducing security cooperation.

"If the negotiation on other themes — immigration, the border, trade — isn't satisfactory to Mexico's interests, we will have to review our existing cooperation," Videgaray said. "This would be especially in the security areas ... and that involves the national immigration agency, the federal police and of course, the armed forces."

Trump has asked Congress to include a down payment on the wall in the spending bill but because of scrutiny from both sides, President Trump announced Monday that he’d be willing to wait until September to revisit the issue of funding; however, his stance on Mexico’s role in paying for the wall hasn’t changed.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.