Big Mac Makeover Helps McDonald's Overcome Restaurant Slump
Big Mac Makeover Helps McDonald's Overcome Restaurant Slump
A revamp ofMcDonald’s iconic Big Mac burger and more aggressive drink promotions are helping the restaurant giant overcome a broader slump in the fast-food industry. The chain posted a surprisingly strong gain in same-store sales last quarter, with the measure growing 4 percent globally. Analysts had estimated a 1.3 percent rise. Earnings also topped projections. The results suggest that Chief Executive OfficerSteve Easterbrook got a payoff from efforts to overhaul the company’s menu. He rolled out different sizes of the Big Mac and offered $1 and $2 drink deals, a bid to attract customers in a cutthroat U.S. restaurant environment. A switch to all-day breakfast in the U.S. in 2015 also continues to fuel sales. “U.S. sales showed a nice acceleration in the quarter,” saidMichael Halen, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. “They’ve made a lot of positive changes over the last two years, and all of these positive changes are starting to add up.” More from Bloomberg.com: Former Fox Host Claims Network Hacked Into Her Computer Shares of McDonald’s Corp. rose as much as 3.6 percent to a record $139.09, the biggest intraday increase in five months. Through Monday’s close, thestock had climbed 10 percent this year, outpacing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 6 percent gain. The Big Mac strategy represents a case of getting playful with a well-known product and not irking customers in the process. PepsiCo Inc. wasn’t so fortunate when it reformulated Diet Pepsi in 2015, a move that led to a consumer backlash. And Coca-Cola’s launch of “New Coke” in 1985 is considered one of corporate America’s most legendary failures . More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Signals Shift on Wall Funding to Avert Government Shutdown McDonald’s now serves the Big Mac in three sizes: the traditional version, a larger Grand Mac and a smaller Mac Jr. U.S. same-store sales rose 1.7 percent last quarter, an unexpected gain. Analysts projected a 0.8 percent drop. Earnings amounted to $1.47 a share in the period, handily beating the $1.34 estimate of analysts. Delivery Push The company also is looking to delivery services and more digital options to help attract diners. It hasn’t been easy. U.S. competitors are advertising steeply discounted food, along with new fare. Industry same-store sales fell0.6 percent in March, slipping for the fourth straight month, according to MillerPulse data. More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Slaps Duty on Canadian Lumber, Intensifying Trade Fight McDonald’s also performed well in overseas markets, which provide about two-thirds of revenue. Same-store sales at its high-growth division rose 3.8 percent, topping the 2.7 percent estimate. That segment includes China, where the chain is opening new locations to better compete withYum China Holdings Inc.’s KFC and Pizza Hut brands. Its so-called international lead markets climbed 2.8 percent by that measure, driven by strong results from the U.K. and Canada. New fare has attracted diners in the U.K., while the chain has been working to improve its customer service at Canadian locations. McDonald’s total revenue was $5.68 billion last quarter, compared with the average projection of $5.53 billion. Some of the gain may have come at the expense of other restaurant chains, including Sonic Corp. and IHOP, Halen said. “They could be stealing traffic,” he said. “There’s no doubt things are looking up for McDonald’s.” Updates share performance in fifth paragraph. More from Bloomberg.com A Dying Man's Lost Recipe Made His Daughter a Multimillionaire Trump Tax Plan Said to Call for Corporate Rate Cut to 15% Jack Ma Sees Decades of Pain as Internet Upends Old Economy Read Big Mac Makeover Helps McDonald's Overcome Restaurant Slump on bloomberg.com

Russell Benjafield holds his Big Mac burger at a McDonalds restaurant in London, U.K., on Monday, Feb. 1, 2010. McDonalds Corp., the worlds largest restaurant company, plans to increase its number of Russian outlets by 20 percent this year to capitalize on its fastest growing market in Europe. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg *** Local Caption *** Russell Benjafield





A revamp ofMcDonald’s iconic Big Mac burger and more aggressive drink promotions are helping the restaurant giant overcome a broader slump in the fast-food industry.

The chain posted a surprisingly strong gain in same-store sales last quarter, with the measure growing 4 percent globally. Analysts had estimated a 1.3 percent rise. Earnings also topped projections.

The results suggest that Chief Executive OfficerSteve Easterbrook got a payoff from efforts to overhaul the company’s menu. He rolled out different sizes of the Big Mac and offered $1 and $2 drink deals, a bid to attract customers in a cutthroat U.S. restaurant environment. A switch to all-day breakfast in the U.S. in 2015 also continues to fuel sales.

“U.S. sales showed a nice acceleration in the quarter,” saidMichael Halen, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. “They’ve made a lot of positive changes over the last two years, and all of these positive changes are starting to add up.”

More from Bloomberg.com: Former Fox Host Claims Network Hacked Into Her Computer

Shares of McDonald’s Corp. rose as much as 3.6 percent to a record $139.09, the biggest intraday increase in five months. Through Monday’s close, thestock had climbed 10 percent this year, outpacing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 6 percent gain.

The Big Mac strategy represents a case of getting playful with a well-known product and not irking customers in the process. PepsiCo Inc. wasn’t so fortunate when it reformulated Diet Pepsi in 2015, a move that led to a consumer backlash. And Coca-Cola’s launch of “New Coke” in 1985 is considered one of corporate America’s most legendary failures.

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Signals Shift on Wall Funding to Avert Government Shutdown

McDonald’s now serves the Big Mac in three sizes: the traditional version, a larger Grand Mac and a smaller Mac Jr.

U.S. same-store sales rose 1.7 percent last quarter, an unexpected gain. Analysts projected a 0.8 percent drop. Earnings amounted to $1.47 a share in the period, handily beating the $1.34 estimate of analysts.

Delivery Push

The company also is looking to delivery services and more digital options to help attract diners. It hasn’t been easy. U.S. competitors are advertising steeply discounted food, along with new fare. Industry same-store sales fell0.6 percent in March, slipping for the fourth straight month, according to MillerPulse data.

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Slaps Duty on Canadian Lumber, Intensifying Trade Fight

For more news videos visit Yahoo View, available now on iOS and Android.

McDonald’s also performed well in overseas markets, which provide about two-thirds of revenue. Same-store sales at its high-growth division rose 3.8 percent, topping the 2.7 percent estimate. That segment includes China, where the chain is opening new locations to better compete withYum China Holdings Inc.’s KFC and Pizza Hut brands.

Its so-called international lead markets climbed 2.8 percent by that measure, driven by strong results from the U.K. and Canada. New fare has attracted diners in the U.K., while the chain has been working to improve its customer service at Canadian locations.

McDonald’s total revenue was $5.68 billion last quarter, compared with the average projection of $5.53 billion. Some of the gain may have come at the expense of other restaurant chains, including Sonic Corp. and IHOP, Halen said.

“They could be stealing traffic,” he said. “There’s no doubt things are looking up for McDonald’s.”

Updates share performance in fifth paragraph.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Big Mac Makeover Helps McDonald's Overcome Restaurant Slump on bloomberg.com