Another Magnum Opus For Prabhas! Makers Of Rs.1000 Cr ‘Mahabharata’ Offer Him A Prominent Role
Another Magnum Opus For Prabhas! Makers Of Rs.1000 Cr ‘Mahabharata’ Offer Him A Prominent Role
Another Magnum Opus For Prabhas! Makers Of Rs.1000 Cr ‘Mahabharata’ Offer Him A Prominent Role The South superstar is now riding high on success in the cinematic world. Not only has he got the deserved recognition for his hard work and passion from Bollywood but also from across the world. Hollywood, including the Game Of Thrones makers , are all praises for the superstar. . He said it on record that he would love to be a part of the movie. “Mohanlal sir is playing that role (Bheema). If he leaves any character for me. If I get a chance, why won’t,” he was quoted as saying. The Rs.1000 crore , which already has Oscar winner on board as crew, is getting bigger and better day by day. India, are you ready for another magnum opus?

They say one decision can change your life, and it seems, for Bahubali star Prabhas, that one decision was to give a nod of consent to the two-part movie, which required his commitment for four long years.

The South superstar is now riding high on success in the cinematic world. Not only has he got the deserved recognition for his hard work and passion from Bollywood but also from across the world. Hollywood, including the Game Of Thrones makers, are all praises for the superstar.

cinemapettai.in

What's more? Now, it seems that Prabhas is all set to add another feather to his already colourful cap, as rumours are rife that the makers of Mahabharata, the Rs. 1000 crore film, are considering to rope him in for a prominent role. Looks like another magnum opus is in the works for Prabhas!

“A 1000 crore film is being planned now. It will be the adaptation of Mahabharata on celluloid. Prabhas has been offered an integral role in the film. The makers are spellbound with Prabhas' brilliant acting genius in Baahubali and they have offered him a prominent part in the epic film,” an insider told DNA.

dnaindia.com

Fun Fact: Prabhas has always been interesting in the movie. He said it on record that he would love to be a part of the movie.

“Mohanlal sir is playing that role (Bheema). If he leaves any character for me. If I get a chance, why won’t,” he was quoted as saying.

The Rs.1000 crore Mahabharata, which already has Oscar winner on board as crew, is getting bigger and better day by day. India, are you ready for another magnum opus?

Don't Miss 3.3 K SHARES 18.4 K SHARES 20.3 K SHARES 59.5 K SHARES 26.3 K SHARES