Naxals Used Villagers Near The Sukma Attack Site As Human Shields Against CRPF Jawans, Officer Reveals Gory Details
Naxals Used Villagers As Human Shields Against CRPF Jawans, Officer Reveals Gory Details
Naxals Used Villagers Near The Sukma Attack Site As Human Shields Against CRPF Jawans, Officer Reveals Gory Details The road inauguration ceremony turned into a bloodbath when naxals ambushed and killed 25 Central Reserve Police Force jawans in Sukma, Chhattisgarh on Monday. The villagers of the Burkapal hamlet shared a close bond with the CRPF personnel. bccl/representational image Earlier, the villagers were supportive to the jawans and also acted as informers for the security forces updating them about the Naxal activities going on in and around the Maoist hotbed of Bastar. bccl/representational image The relationship was so closely shared due to the proximity of the 74 CRPF battalion camp with the Burkapal village. ANI reports that villagers had left the village right after the attack and returned just yesterday. "On the day of the attack, the firing was done from the side of the village also. The naxals has formed a u-shaped ambush, one end of which was the Burkapal village. The innocent villagers were used as human shield by the Maoists. They must have forced the villagers to act in this way," CRPF officer DP Upadhyay told ANI. The villagers left right after hearing the rounds of fire. As many as 25 CRPF personnel were killed in the encounter with Naxals earlier on Monday that took place in Chhattisgarh's Sukma. Around 90 CRPF jawans were part of the road opening party when they were attacked by the Naxals.

The road inauguration ceremony turned into a bloodbath when naxals ambushed and killed 25 Central Reserve Police Force jawans in Sukma, Chhattisgarh on Monday.

The villagers of the Burkapal hamlet shared a close bond with the CRPF personnel.

bccl/representational image

Earlier, the villagers were supportive to the jawans and also acted as informers for the security forces updating them about the Naxal activities going on in and around the Maoist hotbed of Bastar.

bccl/representational image

The relationship was so closely shared due to the proximity of the 74 CRPF battalion camp with the Burkapal village.

ANI reports that villagers had left the village right after the attack and returned just yesterday.

"On the day of the attack, the firing was done from the side of the village also. The naxals has formed a u-shaped ambush, one end of which was the Burkapal village. The innocent villagers were used as human shield by the Maoists. They must have forced the villagers to act in this way," CRPF officer DP Upadhyay told ANI.

afp

The villagers left right after hearing the rounds of fire.

As many as 25 CRPF personnel were killed in the encounter with Naxals earlier on Monday that took place in Chhattisgarh's Sukma.

Around 90 CRPF jawans were part of the road opening party when they were attacked by the Naxals.

With ANI Inputs