Watch John Legend Make Shopping at Costco and Doing Laundry Sound Super Sexy
Watch John Legend Make Shopping at Costco and Doing Laundry Sound Super Sexy
Jenni Rivera's Family on New Telemundo Series, Univision Lawsuits and More at BB Latin Music Conference 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Announces 'Superstar Mano a Mano: Nicky Jam & J Balvin' Panel Artists, Execs Talk the Importance of Collaboration at 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference More Exclusive Coverage on The Billboard Latin Music Awards on Telemundo Watch John Legend Make Shopping at Costco and Doing Laundry Sound Super Sexy  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  You know that old saying about "he could sing the phone book and make it sound sexy?" Funny story about John Legend :Â if people still used phone books he most definitely could. But, given that only your grandma still gets giant collections of easily Google-able numbersÂ delivered to her assisted living facility, Legend had to find another way to prove that he canÂ makeÂ something super boring feel like hot sauce. So, he went on on Tuesday night (Apr. 25) and in the presence of his old pal Dr. John he took up host Stephen Colbert's challenge to bring the heat to some cold-as-ice topics. Reminiscing about the time they dueted on the MichaelÂ Jackson/Paul McCartney song " The Girl is Mine " on his old Comedy Central show, Colbert said Legend can make "anything sound cool and sexy... not matter how mundane." You'll never look at Costco or pill-y sweaters the same way again.  Watch "John Legend Makes Mundane Things Sound Sexy": Legend also played the track "Sure Fire." Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

You know that old saying about "he could sing the phone book and make it sound sexy?" Funny story about John Legend:Â if people still used phone books he most definitely could. But, given that only your grandma still gets giant collections of easily Google-able numbersÂ delivered to her assisted living facility, Legend had to find another way to prove that he canÂ makeÂ something super boring feel like hot sauce.

So, he went on The Late Show on Tuesday night (Apr. 25) and in the presence of his old pal Dr. John he took up host Stephen Colbert's challenge to bring the heat to some cold-as-ice topics. Reminiscing about the time they dueted on the MichaelÂ Jackson/Paul McCartney song "The Girl is Mine" on his old Comedy Central show, Colbert said Legend can make "anything sound cool and sexy... not matter how mundane." You'll never look at Costco or pill-y sweaters the same way again.

Watch "John Legend Makes Mundane Things Sound Sexy":

Legend also played the Darkness andÂ Light track "Sure Fire."

Â