Peter Buffett Talks Creativity, Music, Philanthropy, And Life With Dad Warren Buffett
Peter Buffett Talks Creativity, Music, Philanthropy, And Life With Dad Warren Buffett
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Steven Bertoni       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Musician and philanthropist, Peter Buffett (Photo by Sean Gardner/Getty Images) Listen to the full episode here: Each year Warren Buffett , the billionaire investor and co-creator of the Giving Pledge , auctions off for charity a one-on-one lunch. In 2016, a meal with the Berkshire Hathaway boss went for $3.5 million. At that rate, the childhood education of Buffett's son, Peter Buffett, is valued in the trillions. Peter, a professional musician and philanthropist, joined me on podcast to talk about music, creativity, the thrill and challenges of big charity, and his experiences of growing up with the Buffett home. Some highlights: I was just a kid in Omaha, and a lucky musician who was able to turn his skills in composition into a livelihood in film, commercials, and television. —that didn’t really matter for most of my life and now I have a curious platform that my dad has magnified and allowed—I feel like Because you can give to all sorts of things and go to all sorts of parties and have my name on all sorts of things. It’s much harder to give in a systemic way and go upstream to fix what’s causing the problems in the first place--that’s a much heavier lift. But what we did first is go away with a trusted friend of ours and decided what is important to us, what’s our story, what deeply resonates with us. I was lucky that I grew up in a civil rights household, and though my professional career as a musician—starting with contribution to the film -- I got deeply into Native American culture, the founding of the country, the oppression, exclusion, extraction, and just plain genocide of how we created the country. This was living in me, so when we dug in it was clear we wanted to try our best to address the systemic narrative of oppression, domination, and exploitation. And in that process it was clear that the first start with girls and women and give them agencies over their own lives. Girls and women were the first stop for us and we expanded from there. It's important to have clear boundaries and definitions otherwise you get inundated by great causes. Shownotes: Peter Buffett's new album Peter Buffett's NoVo Foundation Warren Buffett speaks on how charity and business are alike at the Forbes Philanthropy Summit Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Listen to the full episode here:

Each year Warren Buffett, the billionaire investor and co-creator of the Giving Pledge, auctions off for charity a one-on-one lunch. In 2016, a meal with the Berkshire Hathaway boss went for $3.5 million. At that rate, the childhood education of Buffett's son, Peter Buffett, is valued in the trillions. Peter, a professional musician and philanthropist, joined me on The Forbes Interview podcast to talk about music, creativity, the thrill and challenges of big charity, and his experiences of growing up with the Buffett home.

Some highlights:

Peter Buffett on what it was like receiving a surprise gift from dad Warren of billions of dollars to give to charity:

Buffett on how giving away money can be just as tough as making it:

It could be easy to give money away if you just wanted to be popular. Because you can give to all sorts of things and go to all sorts of parties and have my name on all sorts of things. It’s much harder to give in a systemic way and go upstream to fix what’s causing the problems in the first place--that’s a much heavier lift.

Peter Buffett on how he chooses causes to support:

Once you have a billion dollar foundation you are better looking, funnier, all these things happen.But what we did first is go away with a trusted friend of ours and decided what is important to us, what’s our story, what deeply resonates with us. I was lucky that I grew up in a civil rights household, and though my professional career as a musician—starting with contribution to the film Dances With Wolves-- I got deeply into Native American culture, the founding of the country, the oppression, exclusion, extraction, and just plain genocide of how we created the country. I saw real disconnect between our country's founding and our values.This was living in me, so when we dug in it was clear we wanted to try our best to address the systemic narrative of oppression, domination, and exploitation. And in that process it was clear that the first start with girls and women and give them agencies over their own lives. Girls and women were the first stop for us and we expanded from there. It's important to have clear boundaries and definitions otherwise you get inundated by great causes.

Shownotes:

Peter Buffett's new album Songs In The Current

Peter Buffett's NoVo Foundation

Warren Buffett speaks on how charity and business are alike at the Forbes Philanthropy Summit