Should The 840-HP Dodge Challenger Demon Be Banned From Public Roads?
Should The 840-HP Dodge Challenger Demon Be Banned From Public Roads?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jim Gorzelany       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Credit: Dodge) The 2018 Dodge Challenger SRT Demon is insanely fast, but is it too fast for public roads? When the rip-roaring street-legal drag racer known as the Dodge Challenger SRT Demon was unveiled at the New York International Auto Show earlier this month, we cracked wise about how, with a raging 840-horsepower supercharged V8 engine, the hellacious coupe was actually deemed “too fast” for NHRA racing. At least not without first installing a roll cage and the driver wearing a helmet and fire suit, packing a fire extinguisher, and earning an NHRA Competition License. But by the same logic, wouldn’t that also make the Demon, with a 0-60 mph run clocked at a sudden 2.3 seconds while pushing the driver back into his or her heavily bolstered seat at a NASA-like 1.8 g, a bit too hellacious for street use? That’s what an editorial opines this week, leading with the statement that the car is, "so inherently dangerous to the common safety of motorists that its registration as a road-worthy automobile should be banned.” That’s right, banned. While AN readily admits that there are other mega-powerful rides that are justifiably roadworthy, the editorial calls Dodge out for offering what amounts to a purposefully built drag racer for general consumption, calling it, “the result of a sequence of misguided corporate choices that places bragging rights ahead of public safety.” To be sure, the Demon is all about bragging rights, both corporate and personal. Speed always sells in the new-car business, and being able to boast having the “world’s fastest production car” guarantees Dodge magazine covers and millions of fanboy followers. And it comes at an especially advantageous time when FCA is otherwise discontinuing slow-selling passenger car lines and can’t ramp up production lines quickly enough to produce new generations of far more profitable crossovers and SUVs. says Dodge is “knowingly placing motorists in danger,” but that may be a bit overblown, considering the Demon is limited to only 3,000 units in the U.S. (at least for the 2018 model year) and is likely to cost near or at the $100,000 mark, with stiff dealer markups over sticker price almost a certainty. And at that, we’re sure many early production models will ultimately be garaged in anticipation of a later rise in value as collectible cars. Still, giving free rein to 840 galloping horses on the open road can be mighty tempting for the few who are valiant enough to explore the Demon’s demonic performance potential. And if the seemingly endless parade of "Fast and Furious" movies in recent years has taught us anything, it's that street racing doesn't always end well for the driver. According to a just-released study conducted by Canada’s Western University and the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Ontario street racers are five times more likely than other drivers to have crashed their vehicle at some point during the previous 12 months. And at that, they’re both more likely to be single, young men and drive under the influence of alcohol or marijuana. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

When the rip-roaring street-legal drag racer known as the Dodge Challenger SRT Demon was unveiled at the New York International Auto Show earlier this month, we cracked wise about how, with a raging 840-horsepower supercharged V8 engine, the hellacious coupe was actually deemed “too fast” for NHRA racing. At least not without first installing a roll cage and the driver wearing a helmet and fire suit, packing a fire extinguisher, and earning an NHRA Competition License.

But by the same logic, wouldn’t that also make the Demon, with a 0-60 mph run clocked at a sudden 2.3 seconds while pushing the driver back into his or her heavily bolstered seat at a NASA-like 1.8 g, a bit too hellacious for street use?

That’s what an Automotive News editorial opines this week, leading with the statement that the car is, "so inherently dangerous to the common safety of motorists that its registration as a road-worthy automobile should be banned.” That’s right, banned.

While AN readily admits that there are other mega-powerful rides that are justifiably roadworthy, the editorial calls Dodge out for offering what amounts to a purposefully built drag racer for general consumption, calling it, “the result of a sequence of misguided corporate choices that places bragging rights ahead of public safety.”

To be sure, the Demon is all about bragging rights, both corporate and personal. Speed always sells in the new-car business, and being able to boast having the “world’s fastest production car” guarantees Dodge magazine covers and millions of fanboy followers. And it comes at an especially advantageous time when FCA is otherwise discontinuing slow-selling passenger car lines and can’t ramp up production lines quickly enough to produce new generations of far more profitable crossovers and SUVs.

Automotive News says Dodge is “knowingly placing motorists in danger,” but that may be a bit overblown, considering the Demon is limited to only 3,000 units in the U.S. (at least for the 2018 model year) and is likely to cost near or at the $100,000 mark, with stiff dealer markups over sticker price almost a certainty. And at that, we’re sure many early production models will ultimately be garaged in anticipation of a later rise in value as collectible cars.

Still, giving free rein to 840 galloping horses on the open road can be mighty tempting for the few who are valiant enough to explore the Demon’s demonic performance potential. And if the seemingly endless parade of "Fast and Furious" movies in recent years has taught us anything, it's that street racing doesn't always end well for the driver. According to a just-released study conducted by Canada’s Western University and the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Ontario street racers are five times more likely than other drivers to have crashed their vehicle at some point during the previous 12 months. And at that, they’re both more likely to be single, young men and drive under the influence of alcohol or marijuana.