33 Of The Most Annoying Rom-Com Moments Of All Time
33 Of The Most Annoying Rom-Com Moments Of All Time
"That one line and the way she says it annoys the hell out of me!" – lexieb45c54cc52                                   "Like, how is that a healthy way for a relationship to start? And it's played off as this beautiful romance, but it sets such a bad example that when a woman says she doesn't want to go out, she doesn't mean it, and the man should try everything at his disposal to change her mind, including suggesting she'll be responsible for harm to him. It's encouraging guys to persist even when the girl says no (because that's what girls find 'romantic') and it's encouraging girls to not stand their ground when they mean no." – bubblemuffin246                                   "In when Cady sees Aaron playing football and waves, then Regina invites her to shop with the polite words 'get in loser, we're going shopping.' She leaves and Aaron's like... um ok." – susiehunter_8                                   "The cheating. I can't stand it. The ? Hey, I'm supposed to marry this guy, but I know he'll be happier with the WOMAN I HIRED TO PLAN OUR FUCKING WEDDING JUST LEAVE ME HERE I'M GOOD. "So many movies have this, and it perpetuates this idea that breaking up someone else's relationship is romantic. It's not." – danie87                                   "Nooooo! I love and I love Julia Roberts but this part is the worst. Just no?" – lauraelizabethx                                                                     "I love , but can we all admit that the poem Kat wrote and read out in class was infantile garbage?!" – alexandrasills85                                   " : Why the fuck does she not just tell him!! 'BTW don't worry you're crushing on me I'm totally a 25 year old', then he'd be all like 'ah thank God, dw I won't tell no one'. Then BAM they can get together and no one has to get all pissy. "Plus the fact that he fancies her in the first place is completely far-fetched, not only is he a much older and cooler teacher but he's completely hot too, he should have no trouble finding someone his own age without preying on weird 17 year olds." – Yas Langley                                   "They start singing it together and people around her are all 'whoa, get a load of these guys singing', giving them funny looks and laughing. All of a sudden they got the entire bar cheering at them as they dance charmlessly on the bar like they're fucking KISS or something. The crowd are fucking loving it, but I'm internally screaming. "If me and my wife did that, I'd fully expect the security at the Wetherspoons to rightly escort us off the premises. Also, it's hella unhygienic." – m49e0bc002                                   "That line from . Absolutely." – katem405562d9c                                              "In when Jamie and Aurelia get together... Colin Firth being followed by a mob that thinks he's going to buy the girl is hilarious, but come on. Learning another language and chasing a woman you've said like ten words to? And Aurelia learning English 'just in case?' Ugh... gag me. Would NEVER happen!!!" – Abokman                                   "I hate Lucy. She's the typical narcissistic, sabotaging, bitchy working woman every rom-com has". – annaschreiber16                                   "Then when he chases after her and as soon as they kiss it starts to rain. So cringeworthy and expected." – staceykenny1990                                   "The two main characters are supposed to be BEST FRIENDS but Rachel sleeps with her best friend Darcy's fiancé! Oh and Darcy sleeps with the guy she thinks is dating Rachel. Best friends don't do that sh@." – alyssab4eeb7f267                                   "SO CHEESY IT MAKES ME WANT TO BARF." – hayleym4893029a3                                   – zohab2                                   – alysab3                                   "He's such a fuckin' arsehole." – jessicao4398ca442                                   "First of all the whole plot line was absurd, a grandpa going on spring break right after his wife dies? Regardless... the whole story line where the grandson (Zac Efron) is engaged to be married in like a week and within a course of that week he falls for the 'artsy' girl who smokes pot and lives *~freely*~ instead of his fiancée and decides to date the free spirit girl instead. That's ridiculous! Some lawyer dude is not going to throw away logic and just start dating somebody he just connected with. I turned that movie off before it even could be done it was that bad." – mmffjj92                                   "I hate most of , but the part that really bothers me is that Cameron Diaz actually brings up a really, really good point with Jude Law, which is they will have an extremely long distance relationship that they will try to make work but will be difficult and she predicts it will ultimately fizzle and they will be hurt. This is a realistic and legitimate worry to have with a trans-Atlantic relationship. Then at the end we see they're still together and dancing around with Kate Winslet and Jack Black — but this REALLY GOOD POINT was NEVER resolved. We're just supposed to assume they'll make it work and be happy with unicorns and rainbows. WHY bring up this issue if you're not going to resolve it??" – Utena7984                                   "I have always been super angry with for ruining a great movie by blaming everything on Steve Carell's character. For some reason his wife (who cheated on him!) gets angry at him for sleeping with a woman who turns out to be his kid's teacher. First he didn't know she was the teacher (which is a completely different story) and second his wife has no ground to stand on with her anger as she, one more time now, cheated on him!!! I have no idea why he has to win anyone back at the end. Maybe Ryan Goslling, but come on, you would also feel a little weird about your daughter being with his character the first time you learned about it too." – gregpweinstein843                                   "At the end of when (spoilers!) the teenage girl gives the little boy she babysits nude photos of herself to 'hold himself over' until he grows up and looks like his dad who she's in love with. I love that movie but that is creepy af all around." – melindac4cdd9628f                                   "I have a love/hate relationship with the "Thriller" scene in . On the one hand, I love to laugh at it, but on the other hand, it's too ridiculous and I get so much second-hand embarrassment watching it." – punchandpie                                   "The Karen/Harry story in . I really hate Harry after what he did. Screw that you have a wonderful wife and kids, you just have to shag the office bitch and then you made the wonderful Emma Thompson cry. Screw you Harry!" – a487fb74c2                                   "The fact that Cher dates her step brother in and nobody finds that even remotely weird. Like I know they aren't directly related but that's still strange af." – caraw4438bdc8c                                   "I get so annoyed with the ending of . When Andi works for a major beauty magazine, gets pissed she can't write about politics, and leaves to go find Ben. If her boss had said yes, would she have not found Ben? Why did you think Cosmo would want articles about politics shoved in between articles about which dildo to buy? I'm not saying rom-com women should be shallow and vapid, but this attempt to make her seem three dimensional felt very half assed." – ScuzzleButt                                   "She was crazy for like two weeks but one day of normal and they're in love? Really?" – AccioAnika                                              "I have really curly hair and was very self-conscious of it as a little girl. Why can't Mia have beautiful, curly, hair? I love this movie, but this still bothers me to this day." –Meg Koeller, Facebook                                   "[It] made me straight-up CRINGE. She was so obsessed with Tom Hanks and his radio-broadcast tale of woe, she not only sneaked away from poor Bill Pullman in the middle of the night, but also felt compelled to hide the fact that she was even listening. "True, because it's a Tom Hanks/Meg Ryan, Nora Ephron-directed rom-com, everything works out in the end and she finally stops leading poor Pullman on, but I couldn't help but to feel bad for the guy. His fiancée was cheating on him with a RADIO." –Chris Roll, Facebook                                   "[She] goes home, looks down her nose condescendingly on everyone and everything in her home town (including her parents) and acts like it's a huge shameful thing to have not been a trust fund baby. Then she leaves Patrick Dempsey at the freaking alter!!! Am I supposed to root for that?!?" –Hannah Julia Wood, Facebook                                   – kimberleydadds                                   Oh, and the fact she's just standing around in the snow in her underwear. – kimberleydadds                                   "'Say I'm a bird! Say it! Say it now!' 'You're a bird.' 'Now say you're a bird too.' 'If you're a bird, I'm a bird.' What the fuck?" – Catalina Gaviria, Facebook

20th Century Fox

"Never Been Kissed: Why the fuck does she not just tell him!! 'BTW don't worry you're crushing on me I'm totally a 25 year old', then he'd be all like 'ah thank God, dw I won't tell no one'. Then BAM they can get together and no one has to get all pissy.

"Plus the fact that he fancies her in the first place is completely far-fetched, not only is he a much older and cooler teacher but he's completely hot too, he should have no trouble finding someone his own age without preying on weird 17 year olds." –Yas Langley