11-Year-Old Has His Legs Amputated After Being Brutally Beaten Up By Warden At Malaysian Islamic School
11-Year-Old Has Legs Amputated After Brutal Beating By Warden At Malaysian Islamic School
11-Year-Old Has His Legs Amputated After Being Brutally Beaten Up By Warden At Malaysian Islamic School In a shocking case of abuse, an 11-year-old was repeatedly beaten with a water hose by the assistant warden at a private Islamic school in Malaysia. According to reports, the boy had his legs amputated on Friday to stop an infection and is also at risk of losing one of his arms. A New Strait Times report states that the boy's mother, Felda Wani Ahmad, was aware of the abuse her son was going through at the Islamic ‘Tahfiz’ boarding school. "On March 31, I came to visit my son and decided to bring him home here in Johor Baru as he was looking very weak and worried," quoted the report. Excerpts from the boy's personal diary revealed that details about the abuse. He wrote that if one student made a mistake at the school all the students would be collectively punished. The Federation of National Associations of al-Quran Tahfiz Institutions (Pinta), a coalition group analysed the CCTV footage of the incident  and stated "We have viewed the footage and found the student was only hit on one of the legs." The warden accused of beating the boy has been arrested by authorities and the government has imposed a strict rule to keep a check on religious schools.

In a shocking case of abuse, an 11-year-old was repeatedly beaten with a water hose by the assistant warden at a private Islamic school in Malaysia.

Picture for representation. Facebook/Luqman al Hakim Islamic Boarding & Fullday School

According to reports, the boy had his legs amputated on Friday to stop an infection and is also at risk of losing one of his arms.

A New Strait Times report states that the boy's mother, Felda Wani Ahmad, was aware of the abuse her son was going through at the Islamic ‘Tahfiz’ boarding school.

"On March 31, I came to visit my son and decided to bring him home here in Johor Baru as he was looking very weak and worried," quoted the report.

Excerpts from the boy's personal diary revealed that details about the abuse. He wrote that if one student made a mistake at the school all the students would be collectively punished.

Picture for representation. Facebook/ZHUANG Wubin

The Federation of National Associations of al-Quran Tahfiz Institutions (Pinta), a coalition group analysed the CCTV footage of the incident and stated "We have viewed the footage and found the student was only hit on one of the legs."

The warden accused of beating the boy has been arrested by authorities and the government has imposed a strict rule to keep a check on religious schools.