What is the most extravagant wedding you have attended?

Contact author    ouples have turned modern day weddings into “the nuptial equivalent of an arms race,” according to Country Life. The rural life magazine called for restraint and for brides to resist the temptation to “walk down the aisle with a small army in tow”. Previous generations most likely had their wedding and celebration on the same day, with a few drinks in the pub the night before. But why do that when you can have two weddings – one at a registry office and the other on a beach in Sri Lanka? Suffice to say, Country Life does not agree. With hen and stag parties in exotic locations, three-day weddings, and websites and hashtags for the big day becoming the norm, they suggest quality over quantity. We want to hear from readers about the extravagant weddings they have attended. How much did you spend attending a ceremony? Did you have to set up a website detailing the couple’s relationship? Perhaps you were one of 10 bridesmaids, or attended a three-day wedding abroad. Share your experiences with us in the form below.  Weddings   Opinion   comment

Couples have turned modern day weddings into “the nuptial equivalent of an arms race,” according to Country Life. The rural life magazine called for restraint and for brides to resist the temptation to “walk down the aisle with a small army in tow”.



Previous generations most likely had their wedding and celebration on the same day, with a few drinks in the pub the night before. But why do that when you can have two weddings – one at a registry office and the other on a beach in Sri Lanka? Suffice to say, Country Life does not agree. With hen and stag parties in exotic locations, three-day weddings, and websites and hashtags for the big day becoming the norm, they suggest quality over quantity.

Share your experiences



We want to hear from readers about the extravagant weddings they have attended. How much did you spend attending a ceremony? Did you have to set up a website detailing the couple’s relationship? Perhaps you were one of 10 bridesmaids, or attended a three-day wedding abroad.



Share your experiences with us in the form below.