'Game of Thrones' star Nikolaj Coster-Waldau weighs in on THAT big Jaime/Cersei theory
'Game of Thrones' star Nikolaj Coster-Waldau weighs in on THAT big Jaime/Cersei theory
Jaime Lannister knows all about your theories , and he's on board. While promoting his new Netflix movie, , Nikolaj Coster-Waldau took the time to weigh in on a popular fan theory that suggests Jaime Lannister might be the one to kill Cersei in Season 7 of the HBO hit. In the books, Cersei is given a prophecy by a witch known as Maggy the Frog, who tells her that "the valonqar" (Valyrian for "little brother") "shall wrap his hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you." SEE ALSO: The 'Game of Thrones' hero we've been waiting for is actually Jaime Lannister Now, viewers are convinced that it might be Jaime, not little brother Tyrion, who could go kin-slayer on the new queen of Westeros. "I heard that theory, and it absolutely makes sense. It would be a perfect little nod," Coster-Waldau told Harper's Bazaar . "But who knows? You'll have to watch the show. It's a good theory. I always thought maybe it's too neat, but who knows." Further potential evidence? The reappearance of an ominously-named sword , and Jaime's less-than-thrilled expression in the new Season 7 photos which were released last week. You know what they say: keep your enemies close, and your family closer. WATCH: This is what it's like to be killed off on 'Game of Thrones'

Jaime Lannister knows all about your Game of Thrones theories, and he's on board.

While promoting his new Netflix movie, Small Crimes, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau took the time to weigh in on a popular fan theory that suggests Jaime Lannister might be the one to kill Cersei in Season 7 of the HBO hit.

In the books, Cersei is given a prophecy by a witch known as Maggy the Frog, who tells her that "the valonqar" (Valyrian for "little brother") "shall wrap his hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you."

Now, viewers are convinced that it might be Jaime, not little brother Tyrion, who could go kin-slayer on the new queen of Westeros.

"I heard that theory, and it absolutely makes sense. It would be a perfect little nod," Coster-Waldau told Harper's Bazaar. "But who knows? You'll have to watch the show. It's a good theory. I always thought maybe it's too neat, but who knows."

Further potential evidence? The reappearance of an ominously-named sword, and Jaime's less-than-thrilled expression in the new Season 7 photos which were released last week.

You know what they say: keep your enemies close, and your family closer.