ESPN Is Laying Off 100 Employees, Including Many On-Air Personalities
ESPN Is Laying Off 100 Employees, Including Many On-Air Personalities 
ESPN is reportedly planning on laying off about 100 employees on Wednesday, including many on-air personalities and ESPN.com writers. ESPN president John Skipper sent a memo out to employees on Wednesday morning notifying them about the changes that are coming. "A necessary component of managing change involves constantly evaluating how we best utilize all of our resources, and that sometimes involves difficult decisions," Skipper wrote in the memo, before pointing out that ESPN content needs to be more "efficient and nimble" moving forward. "We have been engaged in the challenging process of determining the talent—anchors, analysts, reporters, writers and those who handle play-by-play—necessary to meet those demands. We will implement changes in our talent lineup this week." The layoffs don’t come as a total surprise as ESPN announced that they could be a possibility as recently as March. ESPN’s TV viewership is reportedly down, and shows like are having difficulty maintaining the ratings they once had. That has had an impact on ad sales, which were reportedly down 7 percent in the final three months of 2016. It’s already becoming clear that the layoffs are going to have a huge impact on the way ESPN functions in the near future. Shortly after the news about the layoffs broke on Wednesday, ESPN’s Ed Werder, who has spent almost two decades covering the NFL for ESPN, took to Twitter to announce that he was among those laid off: After 17 years reporting on #NFL , I've been informed that I'm being laid off by ESPN effective immediately. I have no plans to retire Whether you love ESPN or hate it, it’s definitely a sad day in the sports media world. Stay tuned for further updates.

ESPN is reportedly planning on laying off about 100 employees on Wednesday, including many on-air personalities and ESPN.com writers. ESPN president John Skipper sent a memo out to employees on Wednesday morning notifying them about the changes that are coming.

"A necessary component of managing change involves constantly evaluating how we best utilize all of our resources, and that sometimes involves difficult decisions," Skipper wrote in the memo, before pointing out that ESPN content needs to be more "efficient and nimble" moving forward. "We have been engaged in the challenging process of determining the talent—anchors, analysts, reporters, writers and those who handle play-by-play—necessary to meet those demands. We will implement changes in our talent lineup this week."

The layoffs don’t come as a total surprise as ESPN announced that they could be a possibility as recently as March. ESPN’s TV viewership is reportedly down, and shows like SportsCenter are having difficulty maintaining the ratings they once had. That has had an impact on ad sales, which were reportedly down 7 percent in the final three months of 2016.

It’s already becoming clear that the layoffs are going to have a huge impact on the way ESPN functions in the near future. Shortly after the news about the layoffs broke on Wednesday, ESPN’s Ed Werder, who has spent almost two decades covering the NFL for ESPN, took to Twitter to announce that he was among those laid off:

After 17 years reporting on #NFL, I've been informed that I'm being laid off by ESPN effective immediately. I have no plans to retire — Ed Werder (@Edwerderespn) April 26, 2017

Whether you love ESPN or hate it, it’s definitely a sad day in the sports media world. Stay tuned for further updates.