Move Over Dubai: Doha Is About To Be The Middle East's Next Big Destination
Move Over Dubai: Doha Is About To Be The Middle East's Next Big Destination
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Breanna Wilson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. iStock/Hvoenok Flying over Qatar, Doha. Late last year Qatar Airways and the Qatar Tourism Authority (QTA) announced that a new Transit Visa would be available to all Qatar Airways passengers, free of charge and open to all nationalities. So, on a recent trip back to Los Angeles from India, I took advantage of this and scheduled a long layover to see what’s going on in Doha, a destination that’s about to be on everyone’s radar. If it wasn’t already. I’m not one to rave about museums, but the Museum of Islamic Art is quite impressive. Designed by the celebrated architect I.M. Pei, the same architect responsible for the infamous glass-and-steel pyramid that sits atop the Musée du Louvre in Paris, the museum is a destination for both visitors and locals. Inside, expect an equally as stunning collection of Islamic art, including ancient sculptures, pottery, jewelry and astronomical tools from throughout the Middle East as well as Turkey and Central Asia. The museum also takes dining very seriously – there’s a beautifully designed Alain Ducasse restaurant on the building’s top floor. Throw in that the museum is free to enter and you have one of my favorite finds in Doha. iStock/danefromspain The Museum of Islamic Art with Doha in the background. An old souq turned new thanks to a major restoration in 2008, Souq Waqif is a bustling market that only gets more lively as the sun starts to set. A place to find restaurants and cafes, shops filled with gold, the popular scent oud in all forms – wooden incense chips, body oils and fragrances (and in case you’re not familiar with oud, just know that it’s one of the most expensive raw scent ingredients in the world), a Falcon Souq and falcon hospital, and an endless plethora of fabrics, spices and even pets – a part of the souq that animal lovers should perhaps avoid. iStock/VV-pics The Falcon Souq is located directly next to Souq Waqif. And finally, what will be any adrenaline junkies favorite thing to do in Doha, dune bashing. A little more than an hour’s drive outside of the city to Mesaieed, an area in the southern part of the country, the desert landscape you’d expect from this area of the world consumes everything. Aboard your luxury 4x4 vehicle, your local Qatari guide will undoubtedly scare the pants off of you the moment you start down (and up and over) the area’s steep dunes. And following your desert adventure you’ll want to stop at Regency Sealine Camp , a seaside tented camp with beachside cabanas perfect for a meal and some nerve-calming karak, a local and very well-liked tea. Think of it as masala chai, but with a Qatari twist. iStock/Dr_arsla Setting off in a luxury 4x4, you’ll tour the desert heading up, over and around the dunes in the area. Seriously. And this is something that I joke about. With Qatar being a Muslim country, there are a few caveats to traveling here. Alcohol is not allowed, for starters. And because weekends are Friday (the holy day of the week for Muslims) to Saturday and Sunday means it’s back to work for everyone, knowing where to go, and when, is especially important here. But, in a country where alcohol is prohibited, drinking isn’t completely out of the question. There are ways around it. And the way around this is that alcohol is served in the international hotels, making them a place for more than just a good night’s rest as you pass through the area. These are the places to be and be seen. Plus, they’ve all got some pretty cool things going on. Let’s start with the Friday and Saturday brunches, which take brunching to a whole new, completely extravagant and over-the-top level. My favorite two? On Friday it’s the St. Regis’s Grand Brunch that takes my pick for its outdoor seating (which is quite nice this time of year) and on Saturday you can’t pass up the chance to experience the Shangri-La Hotel’s Dim Sum Brunch . There’s just something about sitting 43 floors up, sipping on bottomless beverages (a common add-on for these flat rate buffets) that feels right. St. Regis Doha Friday’s Grand Brunch at the St. Regis costs QR 350 (roughly $96) or QR 450 (roughly $123) per person with the beverage add-on. And I can’t forget about where to head at night. Again, stick to the hotels. The W Doha’s Spice Market is packed every night of the week with everyone from locals to expats (and visitors like you) thanks to the trendy, buzzing atmosphere and Southeast Asian food from none other than Chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten. Hakkasan at the St. Regis Doha and Illusion at the Marsa Malaz Kempinski at The Pearl are other local and expat favorites. But for me, something more low-key and laid back is more my style. Plus, any bar with a solid cocktail and whiskey selection always wins in my book. For that, I headed to The Den at the Shangri-La Hotel. The opposite of the spots above, this place is more relaxed and sophisticated, and that’s exactly what’s to love about it. Plus there’s no smoking here and the resident piano entertainer didn’t disappoint. But they ususally never do. Shangri-La Hotel Doha The Den bar at the Shangri-La Hotel. But that’s just the beginning. With the opening of the new Mondrian Doha , two Le Meridien properties set to open by 2020, an Aloft hotel set to open in 2019, and about a dozen more hotels set to pop up in the next few years, there’s about to be plenty more to do and experience in Doha. With the Qatar International Food Festival concluding this past weekend, and the FIFA World Cup heading here in 2022 , all eyes are on Qatar. While I’ll leave someone more educated on the matter to discuss the controversies around the World Cup developments, I will say that there’s no denying this has put Qatar on the world’s radar and is part of the drive in the city’s transformation into a major destination. Qatar Tourism Authority Martha Stewart at the Qatar International Food Festival in 2016. Because no matter what you hear, Qatar is preparing for these crowds. The addition of new Doha Metro lines (they have 37 new Metro stations in the works) to connect the city to the stadiums (they even have a Guinness Book of World Records world record for the largest number of Tunnel Boring Machines operating at the same time in a single project), a slew of new hotels coming to the city and the ever growing addition of super malls like the recently opened Doha Festival City , which once completed will have some 500 stores, theme parks including an Angry Birds World and a space city, an indoor ski slope and an adults-only gaming coliseum, the country is gearing up. Much like we’ve seen up and coming destinations, like Dubai, once do. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

iStock/Hvoenok

Late last year Qatar Airways and the Qatar Tourism Authority (QTA) announced that a new Transit Visa would be available to all Qatar Airways passengers, free of charge and open to all nationalities. So, on a recent trip back to Los Angeles from India, I took advantage of this and scheduled a long layover to see what’s going on in Doha, a destination that’s about to be on everyone’s radar. If it wasn’t already.

An impressive museum, a souq with everything and desert adventures to get your adrenaline going, a day in Doha is never dull. And that’s exactly why you’ll find locals hanging out at these spots too.

I’m not one to rave about museums, but the Museum of Islamic Art is quite impressive. Designed by the celebrated architect I.M. Pei, the same architect responsible for the infamous glass-and-steel pyramid that sits atop the Musée du Louvre in Paris, the museum is a destination for both visitors and locals. Inside, expect an equally as stunning collection of Islamic art, including ancient sculptures, pottery, jewelry and astronomical tools from throughout the Middle East as well as Turkey and Central Asia. The museum also takes dining very seriously – there’s a beautifully designed Alain Ducasse restaurant on the building’s top floor. Throw in that the museum is free to enter and you have one of my favorite finds in Doha.

iStock/danefromspain

An old souq turned new thanks to a major restoration in 2008, Souq Waqif is a bustling market that only gets more lively as the sun starts to set. A place to find restaurants and cafes, shops filled with gold, the popular scent oud in all forms – wooden incense chips, body oils and fragrances (and in case you’re not familiar with oud, just know that it’s one of the most expensive raw scent ingredients in the world), a Falcon Souq and falcon hospital, and an endless plethora of fabrics, spices and even pets – a part of the souq that animal lovers should perhaps avoid.

iStock/VV-pics

And finally, what will be any adrenaline junkies favorite thing to do in Doha, dune bashing. A little more than an hour’s drive outside of the city to Mesaieed, an area in the southern part of the country, the desert landscape you’d expect from this area of the world consumes everything.

Aboard your luxury 4x4 vehicle, your local Qatari guide will undoubtedly scare the pants off of you the moment you start down (and up and over) the area’s steep dunes. And following your desert adventure you’ll want to stop at Regency Sealine Camp, a seaside tented camp with beachside cabanas perfect for a meal and some nerve-calming karak, a local and very well-liked tea. Think of it as masala chai, but with a Qatari twist.

iStock/Dr_arsla

This might be the one city in the world where not leaving your five-star hotel doesn’t make you a bad tourist.

Seriously. And this is something that I do not joke about.

With Qatar being a Muslim country, there are a few caveats to traveling here. Alcohol is not allowed, for starters. And because weekends are Friday (the holy day of the week for Muslims) to Saturday and Sunday means it’s back to work for everyone, knowing where to go, and when, is especially important here.

But, in a country where alcohol is prohibited, drinking isn’t completely out of the question. There are ways around it. And the way around this is that alcohol is served in the international hotels, making them a place for more than just a good night’s rest as you pass through the area. These are the places to be and be seen.

Plus, they’ve all got some pretty cool things going on. Let’s start with the Friday and Saturday brunches, which take brunching to a whole new, completely extravagant and over-the-top level. My favorite two? On Friday it’s the St. Regis’s Grand Brunch that takes my pick for its outdoor seating (which is quite nice this time of year) and on Saturday you can’t pass up the chance to experience the Shangri-La Hotel’s Dim Sum Brunch. There’s just something about sitting 43 floors up, sipping on bottomless beverages (a common add-on for these flat rate buffets) that feels right.

St. Regis Doha

And I can’t forget about where to head at night. Again, stick to the hotels. The W Doha’s Spice Market is packed every night of the week with everyone from locals to expats (and visitors like you) thanks to the trendy, buzzing atmosphere and Southeast Asian food from none other than Chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten. Hakkasan at the St. Regis Doha and Illusion at the Marsa Malaz Kempinski at The Pearl are other local and expat favorites.

But for me, something more low-key and laid back is more my style. Plus, any bar with a solid cocktail and whiskey selection always wins in my book. For that, I headed to The Den at the Shangri-La Hotel. The opposite of the spots above, this place is more relaxed and sophisticated, and that’s exactly what’s to love about it. Plus there’s no smoking here and the resident piano entertainer didn’t disappoint. But they ususally never do.

Shangri-La Hotel Doha

But that’s just the beginning. With the opening of the new Mondrian Doha, two Le Meridien properties set to open by 2020, an Aloft hotel set to open in 2019, and about a dozen more hotels set to pop up in the next few years, there’s about to be plenty more to do and experience in Doha.

You’re about to hear a lot about Qatar. I guarantee it.

With the Qatar International Food Festival concluding this past weekend, and the FIFA World Cup heading here in 2022, all eyes are on Qatar. While I’ll leave someone more educated on the matter to discuss the controversies around the World Cup developments, I will say that there’s no denying this has put Qatar on the world’s radar and is part of the drive in the city’s transformation into a major destination.

Qatar Tourism Authority

Because no matter what you hear, Qatar is preparing for these crowds. The addition of new Doha Metro lines (they have 37 new Metro stations in the works) to connect the city to the stadiums (they even have a Guinness Book of World Records world record for the largest number of Tunnel Boring Machines operating at the same time in a single project), a slew of new hotels coming to the city and the ever growing addition of super malls like the recently opened Doha Festival City, which once completed will have some 500 stores, theme parks including an Angry Birds World and a space city, an indoor ski slope and an adults-only gaming coliseum, the country is gearing up. Much like we’ve seen up and coming destinations, like Dubai, once do.