Will Smith & DJ Jazzy Jeff to Reunite for Two-Night Performance in Europe This August
Will Smith & DJ Jazzy Jeff to Reunite for Two-Night Performance in Europe This August 
Jenni Rivera's Family on New Telemundo Series, Univision Lawsuits and More at BB Latin Music Conference 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Announces 'Superstar Mano a Mano: Nicky Jam & J Balvin' Panel Artists, Execs Talk the Importance of Collaboration at 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference More Exclusive Coverage on The Billboard Latin Music Awards on Telemundo Will Smith & DJ Jazzy Jeff to Reunite for Two-Night Performance in Europe This August  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After teasing fans about a possible world tour in 2015, Will Smith and DJ Jazzy Jeff are now planningÂ to reunite for aÂ two-night special eventÂ in Europe this August.Â Early Monday afternoon (Apr.Â 24), Smith made the announcement with a video on Facebook . Using vintage footage highlighting his camaraderieÂ with DJ Jazzy Jeff, Smith revealed that he and his partner-in-crime will pair up on August 26 and August 27 in Croatia and the U.K., respectively, for the MTV Summerblast and the Livewire Festival.Â The PhillyÂ tandem etched their lane in hip-hop in the late '80s and early '90s with light-hearted party raps. Dubbed DJ Jazzy Jeff and The Fresh Prince , the heralded group won the first Grammy award for best rap performance in 1989 with "Parents Just Don't Understand." Despite contractual obligations stemming from Smith's role on in the '90s, he and Jazzy Jeff floated back into prominence with their smooth 1991 tune "Summertime." The record bowed at No. 4 on the Billboard Hot 100. Â  In a 2015 interview with Beats 1's Zane Lowe , Smith expressed his desire to go on tour again under his hip-hop moniker.Â "I'm pretty certain I'm going on tour," he told Lowe. "Jeff and I actually never have done a full tour -- I was always on , I was always making a movie, so we've never actually done a full tour. So I'm looking this summer for the first time we go out on a full world tour," he said.Â "I'm really ready," he added, "I'm excited about getting it into my music." Check out his announcement below.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

After teasing fans about a possible world tour in 2015, Will Smith and DJ Jazzy Jeff are now planningÂ to reunite for aÂ two-night special eventÂ in Europe this August.Â

Early Monday afternoon (Apr.Â 24), Smith made the announcement with a video on Facebook. Using vintage footage highlighting his camaraderieÂ with DJ Jazzy Jeff, Smith revealed that he and his partner-in-crime will pair up on August 26 and August 27 in Croatia and the U.K., respectively, for the MTV Summerblast and the Livewire Festival.Â

The PhillyÂ tandem etched their lane in hip-hop in the late '80s and early '90s with light-hearted party raps. Dubbed DJ Jazzy Jeff and The Fresh Prince, the heralded group won the first Grammy award for best rap performance in 1989 with "Parents Just Don't Understand." Despite contractual obligations stemming from Smith's role on The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air in the '90s, he and Jazzy Jeff floated back into prominence with their smooth 1991 tune "Summertime." The record bowed at No. 4 on the Billboard Hot 100.Â

In a 2015 interview with Beats 1's Zane Lowe, Smith expressed his desire to go on tour again under his hip-hop moniker.Â "I'm pretty certain I'm going on tour," he told Lowe. "Jeff and I actually never have done a full tour -- I was always on Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, I was always making a movie, so we've never actually done a full tour. So I'm looking this summer for the first time we go out on a full world tour," he said.Â

"I'm really ready," he added, "I'm excited about getting it into my music."

Check out his announcement below.Â