Donald Trump's Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin announces 'biggest tax cut in history'
Donald Trump's Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin announces 'biggest tax cut in history'
resident Donald Trump is proposing a dramatic reduction in the taxes paid by businesses big and small in an overhaul his administration says will spur economic growth and bring jobs and prosperity to the middle class. The White House is releasing broad outlines of the tax plan that would cut the top rate for small businesses from 39.6 per cent to 15 per cent. A top rate cut for individuals will be more modest, from 39.6 percent to the "mid-30s," said an official. White House officials have said the top corporate tax rate would be reduced from 35 per cent to 15 per cent. The plan will also include child-care benefits, a cause promoted by Mr Trump's daughter Ivanka. On Wednesday Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said the overhaul would amount to "the biggest tax cut" and the "largest tax reform" in US history. The claim suggests cuts of more than $600 billion a year in revenue - or roughly 4 per cent of the economy - exceeding the size of President Ronald Reagan's 1981 tax package. The White House proposal does not include budget cuts that would offset the tax cuts and keep the proposal from increasing the nation's deficit.  Auto update Tax cut for a family on $60,000 inally, what most people really want to know. Cohn has been asked: "What does this mean for a family on $60,000?" His response is clear - "It means a tax cut." He adds: "We will continue to give you more details as we have them." That's what millions of people in America will take away from this announcement. It's all about growth nuchin and Cohn believe 3 per cent annual economic growth can be achieved to pay for the tax cuts. Cohn  said: "This is about growing the economy and growing jobs. President Trump talks to the two of us every day to see what we're doing to stimulate economic growth." Mnuchin said:  "Will it pay for itself? We're working on details, we have over 100 people at the Treasury working on scenarios. "This will pay for itself with growth and closing deductions and loopholes. The deficit went from $10 to $20 trillion in the last administration/ "The Trump plan will grow the economy and create massive amouns of revenues, trillions of dollars. We are at a  historic moment." Death tax to be eliminated he plan says there will be an end to the deeply unpopular estate tax. 'Massive' tax cut for businesses usiness rate to go from 35 per cent to 15 per cent. Cohn says it was 34 per cent when Ronald Reagan left office and it "hasn't changed much since". He said: "Other countries have been aggressively cutting to attract businesses. "We are stuck with a 1988 corporate tax and are one of the least attractive countries in the developed world. "We are going to cut taxes to make businesses competitive and cut them for low and middle class families." Tax cuts for married couples he standard tax deduction for a married couple will be doubled to $24,000 . Tax code to be simplified ohn says the seven individual tax rates will be reduced to three - 10 per cent,  25 per cent and 35 per cent. Gary Cohn: 'Once in a generation' chance ary Cohn is speaking first at the White House. He said: "We have a once in a generation opportunity to do something really big." He calls it "one of the biggest tax cuts in American history". More backlash from Democrats huck Schumer, the Senate Democratic leader, slammed the plan and took a jab at Mr Trump. He said: "If the president's plan is to give a massive tax break to the very wealthy in this country - a plan that will mostly benefit people and businesses like President Trump's - that won't pass muster with we Democrats." Democrats ask how will Trump pay for it? enator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, said:  "I'm particularly struck by how some of this seems to be turning on its head Republican economic theory." Senator Bob Casey, a Democrat from Pennsylvania, said: "There's no question we should try to reduce the corporate tax rate but I don't see how you pay for getting it down that low - 15 per cent, that's a huge hole if you can't make the math work." Republicans in Congress 'open' to Trump plan he president sent his team to Capitol Hill on Tuesday night to discuss his plan with Republican leaders. Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said: "They went into some suggestions that are mere suggestions and we'll go from there." Under the Obama administration Republicans slammed the growing national debt. They are open to Mr Trump's plan even though, under some estimates, it risks adding trillions of dollars in debt over the next decade. Mr Mnuchin says that will offset by economic growth. Senator Hatch said: "I'm not convinced that cutting taxes is necessarily going to blow a hole in the deficit. "I actually believe it could stimulate the economy and get the economy moving. Now, whether 15 per cent is the right figure or not (for corporate tax) that's a matter to be determined." Tax reform 'will not slip into 2018' says White House his from Marc Short, Mr Trump's director of legislative affairs - he says the White House's presentation will be "pretty broad in the principles". In the coming weeks Mr Trump will solicit more ideas on how to improve the tax reform plan, Short said. The specifics should start to come this summer. He said the administration did not want to set a firm timeline after demanding a quick vote in Congress on a health care bill and then watching it fail. But Mr Short added: "I don't see this sliding into 2018." Cautious welcome from markets ust ahead of the announcement US stocks were little changed. Some analysts said investors were aware of the long road ahead before a bill is passed. Andre Bakhos, managing director at Janlyn Capital, said: "We have a pretty good idea that he (Trump) is targeting lower corporate taxes, lower individual taxes and a simplification of the process, but all that is in an ideal world. "The market will not interpret the plan negatively but there are obstacles in that course, just like with anything that Trump says and does." Republicans say plan a good starting point epublicans in Congress have welcomed the plan but said it could ultimately be modified if it becomes law. Peter Roskam, a member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, said: "I welcome the White House's initiative on this, it's a good thing, and I think over time we can get to a good place." Paul Ryan 'optimistic' and 'likes plan a lot' epublican House Speaker Paul Ryan, a longtime champion of a major tax restructuring, expressed optimism about the plan. That was despite the fact Mr Trump's proposals are not expected to include a "border adjustment" tax on imports. Mr Ryan said: "We've seen a sneak preview. We like it a lot. It puts us on the same page. We're in agreement on 80 per cent and on the 20 per cent we're in the same ballpark." The 'biggest tax cut ever' he plans were due to be unveiled shortly by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn. Mnuchin, who is spearheading the administration's effort to craft a package that can pass Congress, described the plan as the "the biggest tax cut" in U. history and said he hoped it would attract broad support. He said: "There's multiple ways of doing this and the president is determined that we will have tax reform.

Corporate tax to be slashed from 35 per cent to 15 per cent

Top rate cut for individuals from 39.6 per cent to "mid-30s"

US stocks hover near record amid optimism

Plans to be presented by Steve Mnuchin and Gary Cohn

Cuts would wipe out more than $600 billion a year in revenue

Mnuchin says 3 per cent growth "very achievable"

President Donald Trump is proposing a dramatic reduction in the taxes paid by businesses big and small in an overhaul his administration says will spur economic growth and bring jobs and prosperity to the middle class.

The White House is releasing broad outlines of the tax plan that would cut the top rate for small businesses from 39.6 per cent to 15 per cent.

A top rate cut for individuals will be more modest, from 39.6 percent to the "mid-30s," said an official.

White House officials have said the top corporate tax rate would be reduced from 35 per cent to 15 per cent.

The plan will also include child-care benefits, a cause promoted by Mr Trump's daughter Ivanka.

On Wednesday Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said the overhaul would amount to "the biggest tax cut" and the "largest tax reform" in US history.

The claim suggests cuts of more than $600 billion a year in revenue - or roughly 4 per cent of the economy - exceeding the size of President Ronald Reagan's 1981 tax package.

The White House proposal does not include budget cuts that would offset the tax cuts and keep the proposal from increasing the nation's deficit.