Second man arrested over death of ex-navy officer Mike Samwell

A second man has been arrested on suspicion of murder in connection with the death of a former Royal Navy officer who is believed to have been run over with his own car. A 20-year-old man from south Manchester was taken into custody on Wednesday by police investigating the death of Mike Samwell. A 21-year-old man arrested on Monday was released on bail the next day. Samwell, 35, suffered fatal injuries after it is believed he chased thieves who stole his black Audi S3 in Chorlton-cum-Hardy in Manchester at around 3am on Sunday. The former naval lieutenant died in hospital. Greater Manchester police said: “A 20-year-old man from south Manchester has been arrested on suspicion of murder and is in police custody for questioning. “GMP’s major incident team are investigating and continuing to appeal for anyone with any information to get in touch.” A statement released by Samwell’s family earlier this week said: “This is an awful tragedy, but we all want to remember Mike as the special, kind and exceptionally talented man he was and not dwell on a senseless crime which has left us all so bereft.”  UK news

Greater Manchester police say second suspect, 20, arrested on suspicion of murder after Samwell was run over with own car

A second man has been arrested on suspicion of murder in connection with the death of a former Royal Navy officer who is believed to have been run over with his own car.

A 20-year-old man from south Manchester was taken into custody on Wednesday by police investigating the death of Mike Samwell. A 21-year-old man arrested on Monday was released on bail the next day.

Samwell, 35, suffered fatal injuries after it is believed he chased thieves who stole his black Audi S3 in Chorlton-cum-Hardy in Manchester at around 3am on Sunday. The former naval lieutenant died in hospital.

Greater Manchester police said: “A 20-year-old man from south Manchester has been arrested on suspicion of murder and is in police custody for questioning.

“GMP’s major incident team are investigating and continuing to appeal for anyone with any information to get in touch.”

A statement released by Samwell’s family earlier this week said: “This is an awful tragedy, but we all want to remember Mike as the special, kind and exceptionally talented man he was and not dwell on a senseless crime which has left us all so bereft.”