Zombie Galaxy Note 7s reportedly have a release date
Zombie Galaxy Note 7s reportedly have a release date
The Galaxy Note 7 will never die. Samsung has been planning to release the volatile Note 7 again as a refurbished device since March, but now we know more about the zombie phone's relaunch. , citing information from South Korea's , claims the Note 7s will launch in the South Korean market at the end of June. Samsung just can't break away from the ghost of the explosive handset. SEE ALSO: The Galaxy S8 blew up Samsung's record for pre-orders The re-release will reportedly see 300,000 of the refurbished devices, rebranded as the Galaxy Note 7 R, hit the market via three unnamed mobile carriers. The batteries, which were infamously the explosive issue that sunk the OG iteration of the handset, will be dialed-down in size from 3,500mAh to 3,200mAh. The refurbished Note 7s will reportedly cost brave buyers around 700,000 won ($620), which would be a discount of about 300,000 won ($266) from the first iteration's 989,890 won ($878) price tag. The move to re-sell phones came as part of a three-pronged sustainability campaign , which was a response after the South Korean company faced pressure from environmental groups to publicly address the fate of the estimated 4.3 million recalled Note 7s. While Samsung didn't disclose exactly where the phones would re-emerge in March, reps from the company told us at the time the U.S. would not be part of the re-release. The new details didn't come from official channels, so it should be taken with a degree of skepticism until confirmed. Samsung reps did not immediately respond to our requests for comment about the report. WATCH: This NYU student went undercover as a worker in a Chinese iPhone factory

The Galaxy Note 7 will never die.

Samsung has been planning to release the volatile Note 7 again as a refurbished device since March, but now we know more about the zombie phone's relaunch.

SamMobile, citing information from South Korea's ET News, claims the Note 7s will launch in the South Korean market at the end of June. Samsung just can't break away from the ghost of the explosive handset.

The re-release will reportedly see 300,000 of the refurbished devices, rebranded as the Galaxy Note 7 R, hit the market via three unnamed mobile carriers. The batteries, which were infamously the explosive issue that sunk the OG iteration of the handset, will be dialed-down in size from 3,500mAh to 3,200mAh.

The refurbished Note 7s will reportedly cost brave buyers around 700,000 won ($620), which would be a discount of about 300,000 won ($266) from the first iteration's 989,890 won ($878) price tag.

The move to re-sell phones came as part of a three-pronged sustainability campaign, which was a response after the South Korean company faced pressure from environmental groups to publicly address the fate of the estimated 4.3 million recalled Note 7s. While Samsung didn't disclose exactly where the phones would re-emerge in March, reps from the company told us at the time the U.S. would not be part of the re-release.

The new details didn't come from official channels, so it should be taken with a degree of skepticism until confirmed. Samsung reps did not immediately respond to our requests for comment about the report.