Police feared extremists slipping through counter-terrorism program, FOI documents reveal



Police feared extremists slipping through counter-terrorism program, FOI documents reveal

Posted

A flagship Federal Government counter-terrorism program did not have a car or enough psychologists, and police feared extremists would slip through because of limited funding from states and territories.

The Australian Federal Police Diversion Team is tasked with intercepting homegrown extremists and turning them away from terrorism.

But a series of internal reports — obtained by the ABC under freedom of information — show key resources were missing around two years after its funding was announced.

Until June 2016, the sole employee in Sydney was prevented from meeting with radicals because they did not have a car.

"The lack of access to a vehicle for the Sydney-based [diversion team] member continues to impact on [the team's] ability to engage with participants and potential participants of the program," one document read.

"Support is being canvassed at the Sydney office level for the purchase of a vehicle to service multiple portfolios."

The program also struggled to recruit psychologists to assess the risk posed by extremists and to recommend suitable programs.

"There has been a delay in the identification and engagement of contracted psychologists," a report from last March said.

By September last year, a full-time and a contract psychologist had been hired.

An AFP spokesman said it could engage external mental health professionals, if required.

'Limited resources provided by state policing'

Funding for the diversion team was announced by former prime minister Tony Abbott in August 2014 as part of a $600 million counter-terrorism package.

The AFP team identifies those on the path to radicalisation, along with extremists for whom rehabilitation is still possible.

It refers people to countering violent extremism (CVE) coordinators employed by states and territories.

These coordinators then direct participants into CVE programs or mainstream options, such as education or mental health counselling.

But as late as March 2016, the AFP feared states could thwart progress.

"Limited resources provided by state policing and other agencies has the ability to impact on the number of people able to be engaged from an early intervention perspective," a document noted.

An AFP spokesman said every jurisdiction now had an intervention program.

"The [diversion team] has an excellent working relationship with all states and territories, and Commonwealth agencies in relation to CVE," he said.

Despite the frustrations expressed internally, the AFP insisted the Sydney staff member had access to "pool vehicles".

The spokesman said a car had since been allocated primarily for the diversion team member's use.

Topics: terrorism, federal-government, law-crime-and-justice, australia