Delaware trooper shot outside Wawa dies; suspect surrounded in home
Delaware trooper shot outside Wawa dies; suspect surrounded in home
Police and Law Enforcement Delaware trooper shot outside Wawa dies; suspect surrounded in home   A Delaware state trooper who was shot outside of a Wawa convenience store Wednesday has died of his injuries, authorities said. Delaware State Police Superintendent Nathaniel McQueen said the trooper approached a "suspicious vehicle" in the Wawa parking lot with two people inside. McQueen said a struggle ensued and the trooper was shot by one of the two people, who then fled the scene. The second suspect was arrested at the scene of the shooting. Authorities said the trooper's identity was being withheld pending notification of next of kin. Officers tracked the suspected gunman to his house in a subdivision of two-story homes in Middletown, about 15 miles south of where the trooper was shot in Newark. The gunman has refused to leave the house and has fired multiple times at officers surrounding the home, said Master Cpl. Gary Fournier, a state police spokesman. No other officers were injured. "There have been multiple gunshots that have come from the house at police officers," Fournier said. Hostage negotiators were on the scene and established contact with the man in an effort to get him to surrender peacefully, Fournier said. Residents in the area were called using "reverse 911" and told to stay inside and lock their doors, and the Appoquinimink School District went on lockdown, keeping all students and staff inside school buildings. Parents were told not to go to school to pick up their kids. "We're negotiating with him," Fournier said. "There has been some establishment of communication between the suspect and police agencies." Police have identified the man, Fournier said, but have yet to release his name. One witness, Clarence Travers, told The News Journal of Wilmington that he heard gunfire while sitting at a red light and saw a police officer fall to the ground. After the initial gunfire, Travers said he saw a man get out of a car and shoot the officer on the ground multiple times before getting away. Police have not corroborated Travers' version of events.

A Delaware state trooper who was shot outside of a Wawa convenience store Wednesday has died of his injuries, authorities said.

Delaware State Police Superintendent Nathaniel McQueen said the trooper approached a "suspicious vehicle" in the Wawa parking lot with two people inside. McQueen said a struggle ensued and the trooper was shot by one of the two people, who then fled the scene. The second suspect was arrested at the scene of the shooting.

Authorities said the trooper's identity was being withheld pending notification of next of kin.

Officers tracked the suspected gunman to his house in a subdivision of two-story homes in Middletown, about 15 miles south of where the trooper was shot in Newark.

The gunman has refused to leave the house and has fired multiple times at officers surrounding the home, said Master Cpl. Gary Fournier, a state police spokesman. No other officers were injured.

"There have been multiple gunshots that have come from the house at police officers," Fournier said.

Hostage negotiators were on the scene and established contact with the man in an effort to get him to surrender peacefully, Fournier said.

Residents in the area were called using "reverse 911" and told to stay inside and lock their doors, and the Appoquinimink School District went on lockdown, keeping all students and staff inside school buildings. Parents were told not to go to school to pick up their kids.

"We're negotiating with him," Fournier said. "There has been some establishment of communication between the suspect and police agencies."

Police have identified the man, Fournier said, but have yet to release his name.

One witness, Clarence Travers, told The News Journal of Wilmington that he heard gunfire while sitting at a red light and saw a police officer fall to the ground. After the initial gunfire, Travers said he saw a man get out of a car and shoot the officer on the ground multiple times before getting away.

Police have not corroborated Travers' version of events.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

