Delaware state trooper dies after being shot in convenience store parking lot
Delaware state trooper dies after being shot in convenience store parking lot
Shares               A Delaware state trooper has died after he was shot in the parking lot of a Wawa convenience store, according to Delaware State Police. At around 10 a.m. this morning, the trooper had observed a vehicle in the parking lot, and when he made contact with its occupants, a struggle ensued, police said in a press conference Wednesday afternoon. One of the two suspects then exited the vehicle and fired several rounds at the trooper, striking him, police said. The trooper was treated at the scene and transported to a local hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries, police said. His identity is being withheld pending family notification. One of the suspects was taken into custody without incident, police said. The second suspect fled on foot before additional troopers arrived. That suspect has since barricaded himself in his home on St. Michaels Drive in the Brick Mill Farm development, firing rounds at police officers, a spokesperson for the Delaware State Police told reporters. The suspect has refused orders to surrender while continuing to fire at police officers, the spokesperson said. Hostage negotiators are on the scene trying to get information from the suspect and obtain a "peaceful resolution," police said. The suspect's family is not home at this time. Police know who the suspect is but have not yet released his identity, the spokesperson said. It is not clear what kind of firearm the suspect was using to shoot at police. Several residents in the area have been evacuated due to the gunfire. The Appoquinimink School District in the Middletown, Delaware, area was on lockdown amid the search for the suspect, police said. The investigation is in its early stages and the exact circumstance of the shooting is unknown.   Shares                  Delaware state trooper dies after being shot in convenience store parking lot   What's in Trump's tax plan that promises 'massive' cuts   House Freedom Caucus backs amended GOP health bill   US military begins installing missile defenses in S. Korea   Trump slams 'massive federal land grab,' calls for review of national monuments   Trump suggests he'll take sanctuary cities case to Supreme Court   US Navy fires warning flare at Iranian vessel in Persian Gulf   Doctors indicted in Detroit-area genital mutilation case   Fox anchor says network does little about racial diversity   French intelligence says Syria behind deadly sarin gas attack   Le Pen upstages Macron in battle for blue-collar votes   97-year-old fulfills lifelong firefighting dream on his birthday   Study links emotional feeding in children to emotional eating later in life   Couple travels nearly 4,000 miles for Spam-themed wedding   Spacecraft flies between Saturn and rings in historic 1st   Last sections of beloved 600-year-old tree removed at church   Dem Senator accuses EPA chief Pruitt of violating ethics law   Tensions rise after Turkish attack on Syrian Kurds   Student accused of planting bomb on London Tube train   Officials: I-85 repairs in Atlanta to cost up to $16.6M   14 arrested in 2 separate French anti-terror probes   Ohio police trying to identify owners of dog that killed man   Air Force launches unarmed missile in California   Witness: Durst victim said he may kill her years earlier   Jury to begin weighing sentence for police ambush killer   'Silence of the Lambs' director Jonathan Demme dies at 73   Late director Jonathan Demme's best-known films   Fans react to death of Jonathan Demme: 'So sad he's gone'   Contrasting accounts of Arkansas execution from witnesses   What does the word 'witness' mean in an Arkansas execution?   Making 'The Handmaid's Tale' as a tale for our time   Man sues R. Kelly over alleged affair with wife   Pope warns powerful to act humbly or risk ruin in TED talk   Artificial 'biobag' womb for extremely premature newborns in testing   High school student athlete surprised with full college scholarship   JFK diary written in post-WWII Europe to go up for auction   Mandisa reveals how deep depression nearly led her to suicide

A Delaware state trooper has died after he was shot in the parking lot of a Wawa convenience store, according to Delaware State Police.

At around 10 a.m. this morning, the trooper had observed a vehicle in the parking lot, and when he made contact with its occupants, a struggle ensued, police said in a press conference Wednesday afternoon.

One of the two suspects then exited the vehicle and fired several rounds at the trooper, striking him, police said. The trooper was treated at the scene and transported to a local hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries, police said. His identity is being withheld pending family notification.

One of the suspects was taken into custody without incident, police said. The second suspect fled on foot before additional troopers arrived.

That suspect has since barricaded himself in his home on St. Michaels Drive in the Brick Mill Farm development, firing rounds at police officers, a spokesperson for the Delaware State Police told reporters. The suspect has refused orders to surrender while continuing to fire at police officers, the spokesperson said.

Hostage negotiators are on the scene trying to get information from the suspect and obtain a "peaceful resolution," police said. The suspect's family is not home at this time.

Police know who the suspect is but have not yet released his identity, the spokesperson said. It is not clear what kind of firearm the suspect was using to shoot at police.

Several residents in the area have been evacuated due to the gunfire. The Appoquinimink School District in the Middletown, Delaware, area was on lockdown amid the search for the suspect, police said.

The investigation is in its early stages and the exact circumstance of the shooting is unknown.

This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.