Why Trump's Tax Reform Plan Will Worsen The Trade Deficit
Why Trump's Tax Reform Plan Will Worsen The Trade Deficit
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Charles Wallace       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Ivanka Trump speaks as her father U.S. President Donald Trump listens in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, D.C., on Monday. (Molly Riley/Pool via Bloomberg) President Trump has been complaining about the trade deficit since he became a candidate. But his plan for tax reform is likely to make the problem only worse. Here’s why: a key element of Trump’s tax reform is lowering the corporate tax rate from the current 35% to 15%. The non-partisan Tax Policy Center looked at this proposal when Trump made it as a candidate and concluded that the reduction would cost the Treasury $3.5 trillion in the first decade and $15 trillion in the second. The proposed cuts are running into Republican opposition because they include no revenue increases to balance them. So one has to assume that they would simply add to the deficit. What happens when the country runs a bigger deficit? It has to borrow more money to pay for government spending, which means issuing bonds to the Chinese, Japanese and other governments and private investors. Bigger deficits usually mean that the Federal Reserve has to keep bumping up interest rates, a process that began in December 2015, to keep investors buying U.S. debt. Some estimates say that for each percentage point increase in the deficit, interest rates go up 25 basis points. So what’s the problem with that? Although not always true, recent economic history suggests that rising Fed rates would boost the value of the U.S. dollar over time. As this article from the 1980s recounts, when the dollar is very strong on international markets, companies find it hard to compete against foreign firms on world markets. The result? Exports slow down and imports increase. In fact, Trump himself has made the same argument against China and Germany: their currencies are “undervalued” compared with the dollar, hurting U.S. companies. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

President Trump has been complaining about the trade deficit since he became a candidate. But his plan for tax reform is likely to make the problem only worse.

Here’s why: a key element of Trump’s tax reform is lowering the corporate tax rate from the current 35% to 15%. The non-partisan Tax Policy Center looked at this proposal when Trump made it as a candidate and concluded that the reduction would cost the Treasury $3.5 trillion in the first decade and $15 trillion in the second.

The proposed cuts are running into Republican opposition because they include no revenue increases to balance them. So one has to assume that they would simply add to the deficit.

What happens when the country runs a bigger deficit? It has to borrow more money to pay for government spending, which means issuing bonds to the Chinese, Japanese and other governments and private investors.

Bigger deficits usually mean that the Federal Reserve has to keep bumping up interest rates, a process that began in December 2015, to keep investors buying U.S. debt. Some estimates say that for each percentage point increase in the deficit, interest rates go up 25 basis points.

So what’s the problem with that? Although not always true, recent economic history suggests that rising Fed rates would boost the value of the U.S. dollar over time. As this article from the 1980s recounts, when the dollar is very strong on international markets, companies find it hard to compete against foreign firms on world markets. The result? Exports slow down and imports increase.

In fact, Trump himself has made the same argument against China and Germany: their currencies are “undervalued” compared with the dollar, hurting U.S. companies.