This Celebrity Chef Wants To Change The Way You Eat In Business Class
This Celebrity Chef Wants To Change The Way You Eat In Business Class
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Breanna Wilson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Cathay Pacific Airways Cathay Pacific Airways has teamed up with Celebrity Chef Daniel Green to give Business and First Class flyers heading from North America to Hong Kong (and vice versa) a healthier alternative to the in-flight menu they’re accustomed to. The new collaboration brings Clean Cuisine menu options as healthy alternatives to regular in-flight dining selections. You might recognize Celebrity and Television Chef Daniel Green from Food Network’s , where he was a potential investor in food-related products being presented to him, and a judge on the network’s popular series. Chef Green is known around the world as an expert on healthy eating – besides his regular appearances on televisions around the world, he’s also authored 11 cookbooks sold worldwide (the last two focusing on Paleo eating) and even has his own range of healthy gourmet foods, ingredients and smart cooking tools. Seared ahi, edamame, butter lettuce and sesame soy ginger vinaigrette. His new Clean Cuisine menu for Cathay Pacific Airways features high-quality, low carb options that help passengers eat clean on flights. Each dish aims to offer passengers lighter and more fulfilling meals with a higher ratio of protein vs. carbohydrates – something Chef Green really believes in. These menu options make flying and staying healthy that much easier. Small roasted pumpkin, Thai red vegetable curry in light coconut milk and Thai sweet basil The Clean Cuisine options include three salads and five main courses, which Business and First Class passengers can request as a substitution to the regular meals in selected flights. Dishes range from a fettuccine, shiitake mushroom, and chargrilled fennel pasta to a small roasted pumpkin with Thai red vegetable curry in coconut milk. Clear Power Punch and Vitamin C booster In keeping with the all-things-healthy vibe, Chef Green also created two power drinks to be served onboard as well. A berries and spinach with maple syrup energizer and a Vitamin C booster – because when you land, Chef Green wants you to feel energized and ready to go, not the opposite. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Cathay Pacific Airways has teamed up with Celebrity Chef Daniel Green to give Business and First Class flyers heading from North America to Hong Kong (and vice versa) a healthier alternative to the in-flight menu they’re accustomed to. The new collaboration brings Clean Cuisine menu options as healthy alternatives to regular in-flight dining selections.

You might recognize Celebrity and Television Chef Daniel Green from Food Network’s Food Fortunes, where he was a potential investor in food-related products being presented to him, and a judge on the network’s popular Kitchen Inferno series.

Chef Green is known around the world as an expert on healthy eating – besides his regular appearances on televisions around the world, he’s also authored 11 cookbooks sold worldwide (the last two focusing on Paleo eating) and even has his own range of healthy gourmet foods, ingredients and smart cooking tools.

His new Clean Cuisine menu for Cathay Pacific Airways features high-quality, low carb options that help passengers eat clean on flights. Each dish aims to offer passengers lighter and more fulfilling meals with a higher ratio of protein vs. carbohydrates – something Chef Green really believes in. These menu options make flying and staying healthy that much easier.

The Clean Cuisine options include three salads and five main courses, which Business and First Class passengers can request as a substitution to the regular meals in selected flights. Dishes range from a fettuccine, shiitake mushroom, and chargrilled fennel pasta to a small roasted pumpkin with Thai red vegetable curry in coconut milk.

In keeping with the all-things-healthy vibe, Chef Green also created two power drinks to be served onboard as well. A berries and spinach with maple syrup energizer and a Vitamin C booster – because when you land, Chef Green wants you to feel energized and ready to go, not the opposite.