It turns out CPR will bring a drowned lizard back to life. A couple of times.
It turns out CPR will bring a drowned lizard back to life. A couple of times.
Even lizards need life guards, sometimes. Dale Hall, alongside his nephews Jayden and Caleb, came to the rescue of one blue-tongue lizard that was found lifeless in his salt water swimming pool in Caloundra, Australia, on Tuesday. How? Just some old fashioned CPR. SEE ALSO: We can't stop watching this flippin' dog video "I was like, 'Oh no. Goner. First casualty for the pool,'" Hall told . The lizard (later named Dusty) was fetched out of the pool by Jayden, who began to apply CPR with the help of Caleb. While there was water coming out of Dusty's mouth, it still remained lifeless. After 10 to 15 minutes, the lizard was given to Hall, who had already dug a hole to bury it. But then something amazing happened. "I went to put it in the hole and it winked at me!" Hall told the news outlet. "I thought, 'Hang on here. It might be a goer still'." So Dusty was held upside down, and its stomach stroked to help get water out of its system. But it still remained lifeless after 20 minutes, and was put in the hole to be buried, yet again. Dusty started to twitch. Its health slowly began to improve. Hall called Wildlife Rescue Sunshine Coast to help, where a volunteer helped to keep Dusty warm before it was taken to Australia Zoo Wildlife Hospital. Dusty was placed in care on a nebuliser, where it is still recovering. "So there's a chance it's going to find its way back to my house. They're going to release it back in the backyard," Hall said. You know what they say. It's not over until it's over. WATCH: This water bottle tricks you into drinking more water

Even lizards need life guards, sometimes.

Dale Hall, alongside his nephews Jayden and Caleb, came to the rescue of one blue-tongue lizard that was found lifeless in his salt water swimming pool in Caloundra, Australia, on Tuesday. How? Just some old fashioned CPR.

"I was like, 'Oh no. Goner. First casualty for the pool,'" Hall told ABC News.

The lizard (later named Dusty) was fetched out of the pool by Jayden, who began to apply CPR with the help of Caleb.

While there was water coming out of Dusty's mouth, it still remained lifeless. After 10 to 15 minutes, the lizard was given to Hall, who had already dug a hole to bury it.

But then something amazing happened. "I went to put it in the hole and it winked at me!" Hall told the news outlet.

"I thought, 'Hang on here. It might be a goer still'."

So Dusty was held upside down, and its stomach stroked to help get water out of its system. But it still remained lifeless after 20 minutes, and was put in the hole to be buried, yet again.

Then Dusty started to twitch. Its health slowly began to improve.

Hall called Wildlife Rescue Sunshine Coast to help, where a volunteer helped to keep Dusty warm before it was taken to Australia Zoo Wildlife Hospital. Dusty was placed in care on a nebuliser, where it is still recovering.

"So there's a chance it's going to find its way back to my house. They're going to release it back in the backyard," Hall said.

You know what they say. It's not over until it's over.