Angela Merkel trying to answer the question ‘Are you a feminist?’ is fascinating
Angela Merkel trying to answer the question ‘Are you a feminist?’ is fascinating
The Chancellor was a research scientist with a doctorate in physical chemistry before her time in politics, where she progressed to the office of Chancellor following the election in 2005, a position she has held ever since . During the panel this week, she was asked whether she thought of herself as a feminist. The crowd grew noisy as she pondered over her response. Moderator to the German chancellor: "Are you a feminist?" Angela Merkel: 🤔 #W20  pic.twitter.com/ofotHSTCAh  After she hesitated, she replied: I am not afraid of it [the label]. If you think that I am one - please, vote on it. But I don't want to adorn myself with these feathers. She continued: To be honest the history of feminism is one with which I have common ground but also differences, and I don’t want to embellish myself with a title I don’t have. Queen Máxima of the Netherlands said: I just want that all women have freedom of choice and opportunities, that they can grab and be happy and proud of themselves. To which Merkel responded: If that is a feminist, I am a feminist. Whether you think she's asking to be judged on her record rather than her words, or whether she's shying away from a label, it's an interesting answer in the political climate.                    Keep scrolling for next article

German Chancellor Angela Merkel attended a panel in Berlin on Tuesday 25 April.

The Chancellor was a research scientist with a doctorate in physical chemistry before her time in politics, where she progressed to the office of Chancellor following the election in 2005, a position she has held ever since.

During the panel this week, she was asked whether she thought of herself as a feminist.

The crowd grew noisy as she pondered over her response.

Moderator to the German chancellor: "Are you a feminist?"

Angela Merkel: 🤔#W20 pic.twitter.com/ofotHSTCAh — dwnews (@dwnews) April 25, 2017

After she hesitated, she replied:

I am not afraid of it [the label]. If you think that I am one - please, vote on it. But I don't want to adorn myself with these feathers.

She continued:

To be honest the history of feminism is one with which I have common ground but also differences, and I don’t want to embellish myself with a title I don’t have.

Queen Máxima of the Netherlands said:

I just want that all women have freedom of choice and opportunities, that they can grab and be happy and proud of themselves.

To which Merkel responded:

If that is a feminist, I am a feminist.

Whether you think she's asking to be judged on her record rather than her words, or whether she's shying away from a label, it's an interesting answer in the political climate.

HT dwnews

More: Angela Merkel had to explain how EU trade works to Donald Trump