Arkansas' set to conclude executions with 4th on Thursday
Contrasting accounts of Arkansas execution from witnesses
Shares                 Arkansas ' aggressive effort to execute condemned inmates is set to conclude Thursday after the state Supreme Court refused to halt the execution of a man who killed a former deputy prison warden following an escape. Kenneth Williams, 38, was sentenced to death for killing Cecil Boren after escaping from the Cummins Unit prison in a barrel of hog slop. Williams was initially serving a life term for killing a university cheerleader whose family he taunted when jurors spared his life. Unless a court intervenes, Williams will die in the same prison from where he escaped in 1999. Arkansas had scheduled eight executions over an 11-day period before one of its lethal injection drugs expires at the end of April, the most in such a compressed period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. If Williams is put to death, the state will have carried out four of the eight it scheduled, including the nation's first double execution since 2000 on Monday night. The first of those two, Jack Jones , has stirred the most controversy after lawyers claimed there had been problems with the lethal injection. The second execution was temporarily delayed while lawyers argued over what witnesses had seen after Jones received an injection of the sedative midazolam. In an emergency hearing by telephone, Jeff Rosenzweig, a lawyer for death row inmates, told a federal judge that Jones' mouth moved several times when he should have been unconscious. Jones' spiritual adviser described it as "a sort of gurgling." An observer from the state attorney general's office said it was "snoring; deep, deep sleep." One minute after the conference call ended, U.S. District Judge Kristine Baker allowed the second execution, of Marcel Williams, to proceed. He was dead 71 minutes later. "Based upon what the court has learned from the eyewitnesses in regard to the execution, the court finds no support for a claim and an allegation that the execution appeared to be torturous and inhumane," Baker said in a transcript of the hearing released on Wednesday. Also on Wednesday, the Arkansas Supreme Court rejected a request to halt the execution of Kenneth Williams set for Thursday. He had escaped from the Cummins Unit— where the execution chamber is located in another part of the facility—less than three weeks into a life prison term for killing University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff cheerleader Dominique Hurd in 1998. At the conclusion of that trial, he had taunted the young woman's family by turning to them after the sentence was announced and saying "You thought I was going to die, didn't you?" He hid in a 500-gallon barrel of hog slop being ferried from the prison kitchen to a feeding bay, and sneaked along a tree line until reaching Boren's house. He killed Boren, stole guns and Boren's truck and then drove away to Missouri. There, he crashed into a water-delivery truck, killing the driver. While in prison, he confessed to killing another person in 1998. At the time of Boren's death, investigators said it did not appear Boren was targeted because of his former employment by the Arkansas Department of Correction. On Wednesday a top official with the European Union — which opposes capital punishment — urged Gov. Asa Hutchinson to cancel the Thursday execution. EU Ambassador to the U.S. David O'Sullivan said the letter was "an urgent humanitarian appeal" on Williams' behalf. "The EU recognises the serious nature of the crimes involved, and wishes to express its sincere sympathies to the surviving families and friends of the victims," the letter said. "However, the European Union does not believe that their loss will be mitigated by the death of Mr. Williams." ——— Follow Andrew DeMillo on Twitter at www.twitter.com/ademillo and Kelly P. Kissel at www.twitter.com/kisselAP Shares                  Contrasting accounts of Arkansas execution from witnesses   Trump slams 'massive federal land grab,' calls for review of national monuments   Jury sentences ambush killer to death penalty   Coulter's Berkeley speech canceled, police prep for violence   Delaware state trooper dies after being shot in convenience store parking lot   Trump order seeks to limit federal role in K-12 education   United investigating giant rabbit's death after trans-Atlantic flight   2-year-old survives being run over by 2 cars in China   Trump suggests he'll take sanctuary cities case to Supreme Court   US Navy fires warning flare at Iranian vessel in Persian Gulf   Doctors indicted in Detroit-area genital mutilation case   Fox anchor says network does little about racial diversity   Baby's newborn photos celebrate firefighter mom, police officer dad   97-year-old fulfills lifelong firefighting dream on his birthday   Study links emotional feeding in children to emotional eating later in life   Couple travels nearly 4,000 miles for Spam-themed wedding   Spacecraft flies between Saturn and rings in historic 1st   Last sections of beloved 600-year-old tree removed at church   Dem Senator accuses EPA chief Pruitt of violating ethics law   Tensions rise after Turkish attack on Syrian Kurds   Student accused of planting bomb on London Tube train   Officials: I-85 repairs in Atlanta to cost up to $16.6M   14 arrested in 2 separate French anti-terror probes   Ohio police trying to identify owners of dog that killed man   Air Force launches unarmed missile in California   Witness: Durst victim said he may kill her years earlier   Senators describe 'long and detailed' White House briefing on North Korea   US commander suggests Hawaii missile defense amid N. Korea threat   Explaining the missile defense system US is setting up in S. Korea   'Dirty Jobs' host takes issue with $425 'muddy' jeans   Man sues R. Kelly over alleged affair with wife   Pope warns powerful to act humbly or risk ruin in TED talk   Late director Jonathan Demme's best-known films   Making 'The Handmaid's Tale' as a tale for our time   Russell Simmons on meditation, what his relationship with Trump is like today   Mandisa reveals how deep depression nearly led her to suicide

Arkansas' aggressive effort to execute condemned inmates is set to conclude Thursday after the state Supreme Court refused to halt the execution of a man who killed a former deputy prison warden following an escape.

Kenneth Williams, 38, was sentenced to death for killing Cecil Boren after escaping from the Cummins Unit prison in a barrel of hog slop. Williams was initially serving a life term for killing a university cheerleader whose family he taunted when jurors spared his life.

Unless a court intervenes, Williams will die in the same prison from where he escaped in 1999.

Arkansas had scheduled eight executions over an 11-day period before one of its lethal injection drugs expires at the end of April, the most in such a compressed period since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976.

If Williams is put to death, the state will have carried out four of the eight it scheduled, including the nation's first double execution since 2000 on Monday night. The first of those two, Jack Jones, has stirred the most controversy after lawyers claimed there had been problems with the lethal injection.

The second execution was temporarily delayed while lawyers argued over what witnesses had seen after Jones received an injection of the sedative midazolam.

In an emergency hearing by telephone, Jeff Rosenzweig, a lawyer for death row inmates, told a federal judge that Jones' mouth moved several times when he should have been unconscious. Jones' spiritual adviser described it as "a sort of gurgling." An observer from the state attorney general's office said it was "snoring; deep, deep sleep."

One minute after the conference call ended, U.S. District Judge Kristine Baker allowed the second execution, of Marcel Williams, to proceed. He was dead 71 minutes later.

"Based upon what the court has learned from the eyewitnesses in regard to the execution, the court finds no support for a claim and an allegation that the execution appeared to be torturous and inhumane," Baker said in a transcript of the hearing released on Wednesday.

Also on Wednesday, the Arkansas Supreme Court rejected a request to halt the execution of Kenneth Williams set for Thursday. He had escaped from the Cummins Unit— where the execution chamber is located in another part of the facility—less than three weeks into a life prison term for killing University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff cheerleader Dominique Hurd in 1998. At the conclusion of that trial, he had taunted the young woman's family by turning to them after the sentence was announced and saying "You thought I was going to die, didn't you?"

He hid in a 500-gallon barrel of hog slop being ferried from the prison kitchen to a feeding bay, and sneaked along a tree line until reaching Boren's house. He killed Boren, stole guns and Boren's truck and then drove away to Missouri. There, he crashed into a water-delivery truck, killing the driver. While in prison, he confessed to killing another person in 1998.

At the time of Boren's death, investigators said it did not appear Boren was targeted because of his former employment by the Arkansas Department of Correction.

On Wednesday a top official with the European Union — which opposes capital punishment — urged Gov. Asa Hutchinson to cancel the Thursday execution. EU Ambassador to the U.S. David O'Sullivan said the letter was "an urgent humanitarian appeal" on Williams' behalf.

"The EU recognises the serious nature of the crimes involved, and wishes to express its sincere sympathies to the surviving families and friends of the victims," the letter said. "However, the European Union does not believe that their loss will be mitigated by the death of Mr. Williams."

———

Follow Andrew DeMillo on Twitter at www.twitter.com/ademillo and Kelly P. Kissel at www.twitter.com/kisselAP