Egypt's Coptic Christians under siege ahead of Pope Francis's visit



Egypt's Coptic Christians under siege ahead of Pope Francis's visit

Posted

As Pope Francis heads to Cairo this week, Egypt's Coptic Christians are reeling after a series of deadly terrorist attacks.

On April 9 — Palm Sunday — two bombs went off within hours of each other, first in the Nile Delta city of Tanta and then in Alexandria, killing 28 and 18 respectively. ISIS militants claimed responsibility for both bombings, marking an escalation in the operations carried out by the group's Egyptian chapter.

About a week later, the group also claimed responsibility for an attack on security forces at a checkpoint close to the ancient and symbolic Saint Catherine Monastery in the mountains of South Sinai, killing one policeman and wounding four more.

While Egypt's Copts, the largest Christian denomination in the Middle East — thought to make up about 10 per cent of the country's population of 90 million — have said they largely appreciate Pope Francis's anticipated message of peaceful religious co-existence and respect, the community faces deep and intrinsic problems.

'Justice is the key'

In the last year alone instances of discrimination and violence against Copts abound.

In May last year, in the southern Egyptian governorate of Minya, a 70-year-old Coptic woman was paraded through the street naked by a mob of about 300 armed men, who took her from her house after rumours emerged that her son had been involved in a romantic relationship with a Muslim woman.

Even though Egypt's President Abdel-Fattah El-Sisi offered an apology to the woman, charges against the men were dropped after a court found there wasn't enough evidence to prosecute them.

Peter Tadros, the spokesman for the Australian Coptic Movement, points to such examples to indicate the problems the community faces.

"The victims are among the poorest in Egypt," Mr Tadros says.

"The culprits are often freed after pointless 'reconciliation sessions' … The harsh reality is that Coptic Christians in Egypt are utterly vulnerable and they are a community living under siege with high profile attacks on their main cathedrals as well as local mob violence by extremists in the hinterland."

"How can any civilised society accept this? Justice is the key."

In December, a suicide bomber hit Cairo's St Peter and St Paul's Church, killing 29 worshippers, mostly women and children.

And in February, more than 200 Christian families fled North Sinai — where Egyptian security forces are fighting Islamist insurgents loyal to ISIS — after seven Copts were brutally murdered. At the same time the militant group released a video calling Copts their "favourite prey".

Samuel Tadros, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute's Center for Religious Freedom in Washington DC's, says that the attacks and discrimination have led to an exodus of Copts from Egypt.

"It's not just because of recent attacks, it has been going on for a long time but has become worse in the last five to six years. Look at the number of Copts in Australia, the US and elsewhere," he says.

"What began as a wave has now become a tsunami."

'We weren't invited'

Mr Tadros says that the Pope's trip is symbolically important for President El-Sisi, who came to power promising stability and security. He has since been accused of major human rights abuses and an inability to stop terror attacks and sectarian violence.

"He [Pope Francis] is widely loved outside of the church and admired in the Western world … If Sisi gets a photo opportunity with him he could say, 'How come this man of peace is standing with me despite what Western governments are saying about human rights abuses?'"

Sisi has made a point of appealing to the Coptic community and became the country's first president to attend a Christmas mass in 2015. He has repeatedly called for unity and brotherhood between Christians and Muslims. Pope Francis will speak with Pope Tawadros II as well as Grand Sheikh Ahmed Tayeb.

In the impoverished Coptic neighbourhood of Manshiyat Nasr in the foothills of Cairo — nicknamed garbage city because most of the city's rubbish ends up here — the ABC had difficulty-finding Christians who were willing to speak on the record.

But 31-year-old metal recycler Kerolos Taqawy Fakhry spoke cautiously. He said that while he respects Pope Francis coming to Egypt at such a difficult time for the Christian community and expects him to preach love and religious co-existence, he doubts it will make a difference to peoples' lives.

He also felt slighted that no one from the neighbourhood was invited

"It's only for VIPs. The government doesn't care about us. I want to leave Egypt — I work 18 hours a day and though it's our country, we can't even take our basic rights."

Topics: religion-and-beliefs, community-and-society, catholic, christianity, world-politics, egypt