Zaheer-Sagarika's Love Story, Lipstick Under My Burkha To Get An 'A' Certificate & More From Ent
Zaheer-Sagarika's Love Story, Lipstick Under My Burkha To Get A Certificate And More From Ent
Zaheer-Sagarika's Love Story, Lipstick Under My Burkha To Get An 'A' Certificate & More From Ent 1. Zaheer Khan And Sagarika Ghatge’s Love Story Will Restore Your Faith In Fairytale Romance Talking to Bombay Times, Sagarika recalled her proposal and said, "It was a surprise for me too as it came right in the middle of the IPL season. We wanted to get away from the city as we had two days off in between matches. So he flew me to Goa for a day and that’s how the engagement happened.” 2. Film Certification Tribunal Orders CBFC To Give Lipstick Under My Burkha An 'A' Certificate The FBAT has asked the CBFC to grant the movie an ‘A’ certificate after “voluntary and some additional cuts and deletions.” However, at the same time, it clarified that these cuts should not affect the “manner the projection and substance of the scene or in any manner affecting the basic film.” 3. In Series Of Tweets, Baahubali Producer Accuses Emirates Airlines Of Racist Behavior Towards The Team In his tweets, he mentioned how the Dubai-based air carrier didn't just mistreat the team when they were on their way to Hyderabad after promoting the film in Dubai, but they were racist. In his tweet, he wrote, "Flying to Hyd on @emirates EK526. Airline staff at gate B4 were very rude n harassed our team unnecessarily! Bad attitude n service!" 4. Shahid Kapoor & Daughter Misha Having A Fun Time In The Pool Is A Sight To Behold Pool time with missy. #besttimes A post shared by Shahid Kapoor (@shahidkapoor) on Apr 25, 2017 at 10:14pm PDT   “I am always trying to entertain Misha and I am down on my hands and knees all the time. I think I have become goofier after having my baby. I am doing more stupid things. I am trying to get her attention all the time. Just like a puppy who jumps around to get your attention,” Shahid has earlier said in an interview with DNA. 5. GoT Actors Will Be Paid A Whopping Rs 16 Crore Per Episode For Next Two Seasons, Claims Report Their remuneration has increased due to the popularity of the show. Yes, according to a report on express.co.uk, the actors have a special clause in their contract; according to which they are entitled to get shared percentage of the syndication payments received from more than 170 countries, in which the show broadcasts.

1. Zaheer Khan And Sagarika Ghatge’s Love Story Will Restore Your Faith In Fairytale Romance

Twitter/Zaheer Khan

Talking to Bombay Times, Sagarika recalled her proposal and said, "It was a surprise for me too as it came right in the middle of the IPL season. We wanted to get away from the city as we had two days off in between matches. So he flew me to Goa for a day and that’s how the engagement happened.”

2. Film Certification Tribunal Orders CBFC To Give Lipstick Under My Burkha An 'A' Certificate

The FBAT has asked the CBFC to grant the movie an ‘A’ certificate after “voluntary and some additional cuts and deletions.” However, at the same time, it clarified that these cuts should not affect the “manner the projection and substance of the scene or in any manner affecting the basic film.”

3. In Series Of Tweets, Baahubali Producer Accuses Emirates Airlines Of Racist Behavior Towards The Team

In his tweets, he mentioned how the Dubai-based air carrier didn't just mistreat the team when they were on their way to Hyderabad after promoting the film in Dubai, but they were racist. In his tweet, he wrote, "Flying to Hyd on @emirates EK526. Airline staff at gate B4 were very rude n harassed our team unnecessarily! Bad attitude n service!"

4. Shahid Kapoor & Daughter Misha Having A Fun Time In The Pool Is A Sight To Behold

Pool time with missy. #besttimes A post shared by Shahid Kapoor (@shahidkapoor) on Apr 25, 2017 at 10:14pm PDT

“I am always trying to entertain Misha and I am down on my hands and knees all the time. I think I have become goofier after having my baby. I am doing more stupid things. I am trying to get her attention all the time. Just like a puppy who jumps around to get your attention,” Shahid has earlier said in an interview with DNA.

5. GoT Actors Will Be Paid A Whopping Rs 16 Crore Per Episode For Next Two Seasons, Claims Report

Their remuneration has increased due to the popularity of the show. Yes, according to a report on express.co.uk, the actors have a special clause in their contract; according to which they are entitled to get shared percentage of the syndication payments received from more than 170 countries, in which the show broadcasts.

Don't Miss 489 SHARES 34.1 K SHARES 59.9 K SHARES 27.1 K SHARES