Galaxy S8 Has Some Embarrassing New Problems
Galaxy S8 Has Some Embarrassing New Problems
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ewan Spence       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. As Samsung’s Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus handsets hit the retail shelves, a number of issues are cropping up in the software and hardware of the new South Korean flagships. Samsung is quickly taking steps to address the problems, but with the Note 7 debacle fresh in the minds of the executives, a rapid and correct response is the order of the day. People look at the newly launched Samsung Galaxy S8 and Galaxy S8+ smartphones during an event in New Delhi on April 19, 2017 (Photo: Money Sharma/AFP/Getty Images) First up is an issue with the Device Quality Agent. Reported by Daniel Bader at Android Central (and others), the built-in software is designed to monitor how a wi-fi connection is used across all of the sub-components in the handset. Unfortunately the software has been crashing on a minute-by-minute basis for users in North America. The immediate fix is to force the application to close or to disconnect from wi-fi. This gets the handset into a useable condition while Samsung rolls out a code fix. This is now uploaded to the Galaxy Apps store and should be available to affected users. The other issue affects the screens of a number of new units . Samsung is all-in on the curved screen and with no flat-screened model of the 2017 ’S’ handset it has pushed the innovation onto everyone. And some of those people have S8 handsets with a decidedly red tint to the screen. While some thought this could be the start of another major hardware issue , it’s more likely a case of handsets coming off the production line with screens that are within tolerances but have not been correctly calibrated to bring them into line with consumer expectations. A quick trip into the settings should allow this to be corrected. To be sure, Samsung is updating some user preferences that will allow greater control over the color settings of the Galaxy S8 screen. You can tweak the red away, or bring it back, bias to blue or any other base that you want. Like the Device Quality Agent patch, this will be rolled out through the Galaxy Apps store. Alternatively if you’ve just picked up a new Galaxy S8 unit there’s nothing stopping you heading back to the retailer and requesting a replacement. D.J. Koh, president of mobile communications business at Samsung Electronics, speaks during a showcase to mark the domestic launch of Samsung Electronics' latest flagship smartphone Galaxy S8 in Seoul (Photo credit: Jung Yeon-Je/AFP/Getty Images) What is important in these cases is not that they have happened (every consumer electronics production line will have small issues) but how Samsung has reacted to the issues. It has been open and forthcoming not just in acknowledging the flaws, but also provided clear information on what steps are being taken to address the errors. If you want to know something that Samsung has learned from the fiery Note 7, then this is it. These flaws may be embarrassing, but the response shows that the South Korean company has decided how to address  any problems with the Galaxy S8 family. Follow me on Facebook . Find more of my work at ewanspence.co.uk , on Twitter , and Linked In . You should subscribe to my weekly newsletter of 'Trivial Posts' . Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

As Samsung’s Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus handsets hit the retail shelves, a number of issues are cropping up in the software and hardware of the new South Korean flagships. Samsung is quickly taking steps to address the problems, but with the Note 7 debacle fresh in the minds of the executives, a rapid and correct response is the order of the day.

First up is an issue with the Device Quality Agent. Reported by Daniel Bader at Android Central (and others), the built-in software is designed to monitor how a wi-fi connection is used across all of the sub-components in the handset. Unfortunately the software has been crashing on a minute-by-minute basis for users in North America.

The immediate fix is to force the application to close or to disconnect from wi-fi. This gets the handset into a useable condition while Samsung rolls out a code fix. This is now uploaded to the Galaxy Apps store and should be available to affected users.

The other issue affects the screens of a number of new units. Samsung is all-in on the curved screen and with no flat-screened model of the 2017 ’S’ handset it has pushed the innovation onto everyone. And some of those people have S8 handsets with a decidedly red tint to the screen.

While some thought this could be the start of another major hardware issue, it’s more likely a case of handsets coming off the production line with screens that are within tolerances but have not been correctly calibrated to bring them into line with consumer expectations. A quick trip into the settings should allow this to be corrected.

To be sure, Samsung is updating some user preferences that will allow greater control over the color settings of the Galaxy S8 screen. You can tweak the red away, or bring it back, bias to blue or any other base that you want. Like the Device Quality Agent patch, this will be rolled out through the Galaxy Apps store.

Alternatively if you’ve just picked up a new Galaxy S8 unit there’s nothing stopping you heading back to the retailer and requesting a replacement.

What is important in these cases is not that they have happened (every consumer electronics production line will have small issues) but how Samsung has reacted to the issues. It has been open and forthcoming not just in acknowledging the flaws, but also provided clear information on what steps are being taken to address the errors.

If you want to know something that Samsung has learned from the fiery Note 7, then this is it. These flaws may be embarrassing, but the response shows that the South Korean company has decided how to address any problems with the Galaxy S8 family.

Now read about the premium Galaxy S8 Plus that Samsung will sell in South Korea…

Follow me on Facebook. Find more of my work at ewanspence.co.uk, on Twitter, and Linked In. You should subscribe to my weekly newsletter of 'Trivial Posts'.