General election 2017: Johnson says UK willing to join US in future airstrike against Assad – politics live

(now) and (earlier)                                  What Boris Johnson said about UK being willing to join US air strikes against Syria Here are the key quotes from Boris Johnson about the UK being willing to join the US in a fresh air strike against Syria. John Humphrys was interviewing him. Can you envisage the circumstances in which we might be involved in the sort of action that has already taken place by America? You mean the strike on the Shayrat airport? Next time around, if it happens again, could it be us? Just so people remember, on 4 April there was unquestionably an attack using sarin gas against innocent civilians And if that happens again, that sort of thing happens again, might we get involved? I think it would be very difficult if the United States has a proposal to have some sort of action in response to a chemical weapons attack, and if they come to use and ask for our support, whether it is with submarine-based cruise missiles in the Med or whatever it happens to be, as was the case back in 2013, John, in my view, and I know this is also the view of the prime minister, it would be very difficult for us to say no. But you would have to go to the Commons? Er, I think that needs to be tested. You are not sure about that? I think it would be very difficult for us to say no. So, going to the Commons is an absolutely necessary precondition? As I say, I think it would be very difficult for us to say no. How exactly we were able to implement would be for the government and the prime minister to decide. But if the Americans were once again to be forced by the actions of the Assad regime - and, don’t forget, it was Assad who unleashed murder upon his own citizens, weapons that were banned almost 100 years ago - if the Americans choose to act again, and they ask us to help, I think it will be very difficult to say no.      Johnson says UK willing to join US in future air strike against Assad in Syria Johnson says, if the US asked for help for a similar attack, it would be difficult to say no. And that is the view of the prime minister too, he says. Johnson says it would be difficult to say no. He says he does not know what the exact mechanism for a decision would be. He was talking about an air strike in retaliation if Assad were to use chemical weapons again. Updated       Yes, says Johnson. Yes, says Johnson. This is a priority for the UK. The UK tried to get a deal before Christmas. It was turned down by Germany. He was mayor of London. He was proud of it being attractive to immigrants. It was the fourth largest French city (because of the number of French in London), he says. Johnson says the UK must get control. Johnson says the numbers are too high at the moment. He does not want to commit to a number. Johnson says he is very proud of the role of higher education. He values international students. He is in favour of talented people being able to come here. But he also thinks the UK should be able to decide its priorities.      Johnson says it would be fine if the US can do a trade deal with the EU by 2019. That is unlikely, he says. He says many in the US administration have spoken in favour of a deal with the UK. We cannot do the detail now. But we cannot ink it in, but we can pencil it in.      Johnson says EU countries want the best possible relationship, a free trade deal coupled with a large measure of cooperation. There may be some programmes that the UK can continue to support. We will pay our subs up to when we leave. Johnson says May has always said it is preferable to get a deal. But he says this is a fantastic country with a strong economy. It would be a tragedy if all that economic success were put at risk by Jeremy Corbyn . There may be listeners who don’t know there is an election on, Johnson claims.      Johnson says Today’s “remaining listeners” will have heard him explain that figure many times. He says people look at Theresa May. They think her approach is clear. In Europe the mood has changed. EU leaders “get it”. There is a new positive approach. When you look at Labour ... Johnson says there will be many aspects to this. All sorts of demands will be made, he says. He says the negotiations will require “single-mindedness and concentration”. Jeremy Corbyn won’t .... Johnson says Corbyn won’t negotiate this properly. Johnson says no one has tabled a request in the negotiations for a sum of money. Let’s see how this unfolds. If Humphrys is asking if the EU will get the money for substantive talks happen, that won’t happen. He says there is no reason why the UK should be paying “huge sums of money in the long term” to the EU. He says his recommendations will be to hang strong. When it comes to paying huge sums into the EU budget as a matter of course, those days will end when we come out.      is interviewing Humphrys says the election would not be happening if it were not for the vote for Brexit. Johnson says the election is a choice between stable government and the chaotic Jeremy Corbyn . If Humphrys is talking about the Vote Leave claim that leaving the EU would save £350m a week, he says our contributions to the EU are £350m a week net that we do not control. He says if Humphrys wants to revive the arguments of the campaign, he is happy to go through that. The £350m a week is money we don’t control. But we don’t control how it is spent, Johnson says. He says the government will be able to decide where the money goes. It could go to the NHS. The government has invested in the NHS. May should get a strong mandate, he says.      Boris Johnson's Today interview Andrew Sparrow Good morning. I’m taking over from Claire. will be on the Today programme in a moment.      Claire Phipps Time to hand the live blog to , just as is about to arrive on the Today programme to say “mugwump” again. With any luck, there might be some substance, too. Your daily reminder: do sign up here for the Snap , our all-you-need-to-know election briefing delivered direct to your inbox each weekday morning. You can read today’s here .      There was – amid the name-calling and rib-poking – something of a serious point in ’s Sun column on today. The foreign secretary argues that Labour’s position on global issues is still a mystery to many voters: Look at the world today, and the problems Britain is grappling with. We have a revanchist Russia, interfering blatantly with European democracies – countries that Moscow wants to pull back into its sphere of influence. We have a semi-deranged regime in North Korea, bent on getting nuclear weapons that could one day be used to strike this country. And we are engaged in a vast struggle against an evil Islamist death cult that is taking lives around the world. Where is Corbyn on any of these issues?      Greens and Lib Dems try tactics in Brighton Rowena Mason On Wednesday night, the Green party took the significant step of deciding not to run a candidate in Brighton Kemptown, held by Conservative by a majority of just 690 against Labour. The decision gives Labour a real possibility of making a gain, as the Greens received 3,167 votes in 2015, which would be enough to beat Kirby if all its voters switched to Labour. It is the first credible example of a attempt at an anti-Tory progressive alliance – an idea supported by a number of Labour, Lib Dem and Green activists, but which has faltered over the tribal unwillingness of parties to stand down in specific seats. A number of Ukip branches have already declared that they will not stand against pro-Brexit Conservatives. The Liberal Democrats have also announced that they will not stand against , the Green MP, in Brighton Pavilion, whose nearest challenger is Labour. Lucas, the co-leader of the Greens said: In Brighton something amazing is happening. People are putting aside party allegiances and working together so we have the best possible chance of delivering a fairer voting system and beating the Tories at the next election. , the Green candidate standing down in Brighton Kemptown, who also ran in 2015, said: We didn’t ask for a deal: we chose instead to step down unilaterally, to help the proudly progressive city of Brighton and Hove to return three progressive MPs. We also wanted to send a powerful message to other parties that we are prepared to make the first move in order to get progressive alliance talks going. Updated       Prior to today’s … splash, some had wondered if the Tories would risk letting anywhere near a battle bus, given his close association with the discredited – and abandoned – “£350m-a-week to the NHS” Vote Leave bus slogan. But talking this morning, Johnson said he stood by the claim. “Of course I do,” he told ITV’s Good Morning Britain, adding that the £350m figure was “not disputed”: [It’s] £350m a week which we do not currently control which could be spent on our priorities, including the NHS. (Quick fact-check: it’s very much disputed. See here .) was one of those who distanced themselves from the claim, saying after the leave vote had been secured that the promise had been “a mistake”. But Johnson said today: As far as I remember, the gentleman in question belonged to another party and wasn’t on my bus.      The foreign secretary’s official entrance on the campaign stage came with a speech last night at the lord mayor’s banquet in London, where he confidently predicted a raft of trade deals coming the UK’s way post-Brexit, citing – and I am not making this up – a maker of Toblerone stands in his own constituency. (Perhaps we shouldn’t mention the great Toblerone scandal of 2016 .) Johnson told his audience: I was amazed, when walking the backstreets of Uxbridge, to find a little company that makes the wooden display counters that are used to sell the duty-free Toblerones in every Saudi Arabian airport. If we can crack markets like that, think what we can do when we have free trade deals with America, where they still have a ban on British haggis. Think of our potential whisky sales to India if only we could negotiate a cut in their duty of 150% on Scotch.      says he, like many of us, had to look up the meaning of the word “mugwump”. He says its use reflects more on the writer than the target: I think this is feeling left out of the election campaign. Healey calls it the look-at-me name-calling that you’d see in the Eton playground. This kind of attack demeans the office of foreign secretary, he adds: Don’t attack the person, debate the policies … let the people see a leaders’ debate. Pressed on his own previous criticisms of Corbyn, Healey says he has served under four Labour leaders, all of whom had strengths and weaknesses: What you can say about : he’s a man of principle, he cares very deeply about this country … He will lead a Labour government that will make a real difference to this country.      , the shadow housing minister, is talking about Labour’s housebuilding pledge on the Today programme. You’ll have to wait for the manifesto for all the details, he says, but “Labour in government will take big steps” to deal with the housing crisis. He says, for example, there would be 100,000 new affordable homes each year to rent and buy, with councils playing a big part in that: You have to have councils building and commissioning new homes as part of a much bigger effort.      Although he’ll now spend the day dealing with mugwump fallout, is in fact making a policy announcement on housing today, my colleague  reports : The party has released research that it says shows Labour-run councils have built on average around 900 more new homes between 2010 and 2016 than their Conservative counterparts. The statistics, commissioned by the party from the Commons library, show that Labour-led councils averaged 2,577 new homes each, against 1,679 for Conservative-run authorities and 1,660 for the Liberal Democrats. In comments to be made in Harlow and released in advance of his visit, Corbyn says: Britain faces a housing crisis, with runaway rents and unaffordable housing. The system is rigged, with housing treated as an investment for the few, not homes for the many. With levels of homebuilding at the lowest levels since the 1920s, the Conservatives “will never fix the housing crisis, which is holding so many people back”, he will say. Read the full story here:      What is a mugwump? No, I didn’t think this is how I’d be spending my Thursday either. But here we go. The Merriam-Webster dictionary doesn’t really help us, offering two ill-fitting definitions: a bolter from the Republican party in 1884 a person who is independent (as in politics) or who remains undecided or neutral Wikipedia has plenty on that first definition, with a helpfully inapplicable addendum: Mugwumps were rightwing similar in view to the British Tory party. In the world of Harry Potter, the Supreme Mugwump is apparently the title of the head of the International Confederation of Wizards – for which seems an unlikely candidate. Another dictionary definition offers: a person who remains aloof or independent, especially from party politics. So that might be it. But chances are just liked how it sounded when matched with “mutton-headed”.      In case you were wondering if was regretting his verbal onslaught on – I know you weren’t, but humour me for a moment – then the answer is no. But speaking just now on ITV’s Good Morning Britain, the foreign secretary did have an apology to dole out: I apologise to mugwumps everywhere. Johnson will be turning up on the Today programme in just over an hour, so if you’re already sick of the word mugwump, I’m afraid there is nowhere to hide.      The Snap: your election briefing Claire Phipps Good morning and welcome to another day on the stump. I’m with your daily election rundown; sign up here to have it delivered piping hot to your inbox. joins the live blog later. What’s happening? Nobody puts Boris in a corner. After talk that the foreign secretary might be kept away from the election campaign with busywork on North Korea and Russia, is back, with a speech about selling haggis to the US and a column in the Sun about “mutton-headed old mugwump” . Just when we thought we’d have to spend the next six weeks on Brexit and the NHS and “strong and stable leadership” . Johnson’s more serious points – that the electorate can’t be entirely certain of Labour’s position on the nuclear threat or Isis – fade (as is surely the point) in the face of the sedulous insulting of Corbyn, who is “floundering”, “meandering”, “nonsensical” and an “Islingtonian herbivore”. Johnson is, of course, also an Islingtonian, but a carnivorous one , and so definitely not a hypocrite. Away from the mutton-slinging, local parties have been choosing more candidates. Runway runaway – who resigned from the Conservatives when they backed Heathrow expansion, and lost the subsequent byelection to Liberal Democrat – returns to stand in Richmond Park . For the Conservatives, who still back Heathrow expansion. With that 2016 London mayoral election loss already in the net, can he make it a Zac-trick? Journalist-turned-politician  will attempt to succeed politician-turned-journalist for the Tories in Tatton. Labour has selected its successors for outgoing and : will stand in Hull West and Hessle; in Barnsley East. gets the nod in Lewisham West. But there’s discontent in Leigh, the Manchester Evening News reports , with constituency party chairman threatening to resign if Corbyn adviser is slotted into ’s empty chair. Local parties are pushing back, too, against top-level rejection of a progressive alliance , with Lib Dems in Brighton Pavilion deciding not to field a candidate against incumbent – a move welcomed by the Green MP, and by Lib Dem party president , who called it “ constructive collaboration ”. The Greens will not run a candidate in Tory-held Brighton Kemptown, opening a door to Labour, a close second in 2015; nor in Ealing , currently held by Labour’s . In Northern Ireland, the prospect of an anti-Brexit progressive alliance seems to be foundering, with Sinn Féin rejecting an SDLP suggestion that candidates stand without party affiliation. Will it all add up to much on 9 June? The Tories boast they will be targeting Labour MPs , , and in what would once have been thought of as comfortable – although not kick-your-shoes-off-and-chillax comfortable – seats. But Nottingham South MP Greenwood is battle bus-ready: They’d better be ready for a fight. People round here haven’t seen a Tory since 2015. Corbyn will not take part in TV debates if the prime minister doesn’t turn up . Children’s hospital units forced to close to new patients due to NHS staff shortages . sacks candidate  for ‘offensive and antisemitic’ remarks . says the general election is a vote on indyref2 . Kent police has sent a file to the CPS about alleged election overspending by Conservative in 2015. Poll position A new YouGov poll for the Times has ’s lead over Labour shrinking to just 16 points – I’ll leave you to argue on the merits of that “just”. But it’s a dip from 23 points last week. EXC: Times / YouGov poll: Tory lead down to 16 points pic.twitter.com/Bd2pl9btv8 The same poll also has 45% of those surveyed saying the UK was wrong to vote to leave the EU, against 43% who think it was the right decision, and 12% who just don’t know or can’t bring themselves to think about it for one more damned second, OK? Diary Expect to see more of in a round of interviews this morning. meets business leaders in the Midlands, before a speech in Leeds this evening. heads to Harlow to talk housing. is in Cambridge – where the Lib Dems have their sights on capturing a remain seat from Labour. leads today’s SNP charge, campaigning in Paisley. Talking point A quirk of election campaigns is that amid the jibes and jostling and soundbites, we sometimes catch a glimpse of a policy. Labour’s focus today is housing , of the elusive affordable type, and Corbyn will be in Essex to highlight his party’s record on getting homes built. Between 2010 and 2016 Labour-run councils have built, on average, around 900 more new homes than Conservative authorities, Corbyn will say, announcing that his government would build a million new houses, half for council rent. The PM, meanwhile, could downgrade the pensions triple-lock to just the double, potentially freeing up cash to help with social care, an issue she has vowed to “stop ducking”. Read these  in the Times says it’s time to put ’s views on gay sex to bed: Farron was elected leader and everyone forgot about his attitude towards sin. Then along came the election and back came the question and his first response was to dodge. I am not in the business, he said, of making ‘theological pronouncements’. In other words what he did or didn’t consider a sin belonged to a different and separate world to the world of politics. In effect he was arguing the theory of the Two Farrons … People are messy and contradictory. Most of us are Two Farrons, or even more … But the essential question is not what this person might be thinking or feeling, but will they actually do harm or good? The more generous liberal impulse is the big tent versus the narrow path, the forum versus the flames. And we don’t need to burn St Tim. In the Guardian , argues that it shouldn’t take the prospect of an electoral upset to make the media pay attention to Wales: While it’s good that the Westminster-obsessed press is finally talking about Wales, it is beyond infuriating that it needed Welsh voters turning to the Conservatives for it to happen. The fact is, many of the conditions for this perfect storm have been brewing for some time – but nobody was looking … There is simply no logical reason why Welsh voters wouldn’t adopt the same voting patterns as Brexit voters in England. The myth that the Welsh electorate, which consumes basically the same media as the English, would somehow hold on to an inherent progressivism in the face of industrial decline was always absurd. Revelation of the day Politics Home has been doing a dogged job of logging all incumbent MPs and whether they’re staying to fight or stepping away. With the deadline still a fortnight away, most have now declared themselves in or out, but several have yet to commit – among them in Maidenhead and in Islington North. The day in a tweet Looking forward to saying 'mugwump' multiple times on #radio4 this morning #mugwump And another thing Would you like to wake up to this briefing in your inbox every weekday? Sign up here !  General election 2017   Politics live with Andrew Sparrow   Zac Goldsmith   Boris Johnson   Caroline Lucas   Jeremy Corbyn

06:33

Good morning and welcome to another day on the stump. I’m Claire Phipps with your daily election rundown; sign up here to have it delivered piping hot to your inbox. Andrew Sparrow joins the live blog later.

What’s happening?

Nobody puts Boris in a corner. After talk that the foreign secretary might be kept away from the election campaign with busywork on North Korea and Russia, Boris Johnson is back, with a speech about selling haggis to the US and a column in the Sun about “mutton-headed old mugwump” Jeremy Corbyn. Just when we thought we’d have to spend the next six weeks on Brexit and the NHS and “strong and stable leadership”.

Johnson’s more serious points – that the electorate can’t be entirely certain of Labour’s position on the nuclear threat or Isis – fade (as is surely the point) in the face of the sedulous insulting of Corbyn, who is “floundering”, “meandering”, “nonsensical” and an “Islingtonian herbivore”. Johnson is, of course, also an Islingtonian, but a carnivorous one, and so definitely not a hypocrite.

Boris Johnson: not courting the vegetarian vote. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/PA

Away from the mutton-slinging, local parties have been choosing more candidates. Runway runaway Zac Goldsmith – who resigned from the Conservatives when they backed Heathrow expansion, and lost the subsequent byelection to Liberal Democrat Sarah Olney – returns to stand in Richmond Park. For the Conservatives, who still back Heathrow expansion. With that 2016 London mayoral election loss already in the net, can he make it a Zac-trick?

Journalist-turned-politician Esther McVey will attempt to succeed politician-turned-journalist George Osborne for the Tories in Tatton. Labour has selected its successors for outgoing Alan Johnson and Michael Dugher: Emma Hardy will stand in Hull West and Hessle; Steph Peacock in Barnsley East. Ellie Reeves gets the nod in Lewisham West. But there’s discontent in Leigh, the Manchester Evening News reports, with constituency party chairman Peter Smith threatening to resign if Corbyn adviser Katy Clark is slotted into Andy Burnham’s empty chair.

Local parties are pushing back, too, against top-level rejection of a progressive alliance, with Lib Dems in Brighton Pavilion deciding not to field a candidate against incumbent Caroline Lucas – a move welcomed by the Green MP, and by Lib Dem party president Sal Brinton, who called it “constructive collaboration”.

Caroline Lucas: yes, Boris Johnson, another vegetarian. Photograph: Andrew Matthews/PA

The Greens will not run a candidate in Tory-held Brighton Kemptown, opening a door to Labour, a close second in 2015; nor in Ealing, currently held by Labour’s Rupa Huq.

In Northern Ireland, the prospect of an anti-Brexit progressive alliance seems to be foundering, with Sinn Féin rejecting an SDLP suggestion that candidates stand without party affiliation.

Will it all add up to much on 9 June? The Tories boast they will be targeting Labour MPs Tom Watson, Liz Kendall, Lilian Greenwood and Vernon Coaker in what would once have been thought of as comfortable – although not kick-your-shoes-off-and-chillax comfortable – seats. But Nottingham South MP Greenwood is battle bus-ready:

They’d better be ready for a fight. People round here haven’t seen a Tory since 2015.

At a glance:

Poll position

A new YouGov poll for the Times has Theresa May’s lead over Labour shrinking to just 16 points – I’ll leave you to argue on the merits of that “just”. But it’s a dip from 23 points last week.

Sam Coates Times (@SamCoatesTimes) EXC: Times / YouGov poll: Tory lead down to 16 points pic.twitter.com/Bd2pl9btv8

The same poll also has 45% of those surveyed saying the UK was wrong to vote to leave the EU, against 43% who think it was the right decision, and 12% who just don’t know or can’t bring themselves to think about it for one more damned second, OK?

Diary

Expect to see more of Boris Johnson in a round of interviews this morning.

in a round of interviews this morning. Theresa May meets business leaders in the Midlands, before a speech in Leeds this evening.



meets business leaders in the Midlands, before a speech in Leeds this evening. Jeremy Corbyn heads to Harlow to talk housing.

heads to Harlow to talk housing. Tim Farron is in Cambridge – where the Lib Dems have their sights on capturing a remain seat from Labour.

is in Cambridge – where the Lib Dems have their sights on capturing a remain seat from Labour. Mhairi Black leads today’s SNP charge, campaigning in Paisley.

Talking point

A quirk of election campaigns is that amid the jibes and jostling and soundbites, we sometimes catch a glimpse of a policy. Labour’s focus today is housing, of the elusive affordable type, and Corbyn will be in Essex to highlight his party’s record on getting homes built. Between 2010 and 2016 Labour-run councils have built, on average, around 900 more new homes than Conservative authorities, Corbyn will say, announcing that his government would build a million new houses, half for council rent.

Wednesday NHS, Thursday housing. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/PA

The PM, meanwhile, could downgrade the pensions triple-lock to just the double, potentially freeing up cash to help with social care, an issue she has vowed to “stop ducking”.

Read these

David Aaronovitch in the Times says it’s time to put Tim Farron’s views on gay sex to bed:

Farron was elected leader and everyone forgot about his attitude towards sin. Then along came the election and back came the question and his first response was to dodge. I am not in the business, he said, of making ‘theological pronouncements’. In other words what he did or didn’t consider a sin belonged to a different and separate world to the world of politics. In effect he was arguing the theory of the Two Farrons …

People are messy and contradictory. Most of us are Two Farrons, or even more … But the essential question is not what this person might be thinking or feeling, but will they actually do harm or good? The more generous liberal impulse is the big tent versus the narrow path, the forum versus the flames. And we don’t need to burn St Tim.

In the Guardian, Ellie Mae O’Hagan argues that it shouldn’t take the prospect of an electoral upset to make the media pay attention to Wales:

While it’s good that the Westminster-obsessed press is finally talking about Wales, it is beyond infuriating that it needed Welsh voters turning to the Conservatives for it to happen. The fact is, many of the conditions for this perfect storm have been brewing for some time – but nobody was looking …

There is simply no logical reason why Welsh voters wouldn’t adopt the same voting patterns as Brexit voters in England. The myth that the Welsh electorate, which consumes basically the same media as the English, would somehow hold on to an inherent progressivism in the face of industrial decline was always absurd.

Revelation of the day

Politics Home has been doing a dogged job of logging all incumbent MPs and whether they’re staying to fight or stepping away. With the deadline still a fortnight away, most have now declared themselves in or out, but several have yet to commit – among them Theresa May in Maidenhead and Jeremy Corbyn in Islington North.

The day in a tweet

Kathy Clugston (@kathyclugston) Looking forward to saying 'mugwump' multiple times on #radio4 this morning #mugwump

And another thing

Would you like to wake up to this briefing in your inbox every weekday? Sign up here!