Don’t worry about Brexit – worry about the Great Repeal Bill that comes after it
Don’t worry about Brexit – worry about the Great Repeal Bill that comes after it
Keir Starmer yesterday called for an EU exit that brings the country together , and promised to protect the rights of workers, consumers, and environmental rights. These aspirations are to be applauded, but to achieve a Brexit that both unites the country and protects individual rights, Labour must go further. It needs to stop Theresa May’s Great Repeal Bill. Following Brexit, the Prime Minister has proposed the Great Repeal Bill which will give the UK government sweeping powers to repeal all EU legislation currently in place without parliamentary approval. The bill is little more than an executive coup. It undermines Parliament and opens the door to a bonfire of individual rights. This is no mere academic point. Parliament is our supreme law making institution because it is accountable to voters. If Parliament is diminished, we are all disenfranchised. The Great Repeal Bill will give the government a range of exceptional powers, including Henry VIII powers. These allow ministers and civil servants to scrap rights without a vote in Parliament. The breadth of these powers, and the unprecedented volume of law they will cover, means that the government will, effectively, be able to legislate without Parliament . The only limit on these exceptional powers, is the promise that they will not be used to make “policy changes” . But, as it seems only the government will have the power to decide what counts as a “policy change”, this does not represent any sort of meaningful accountability. Indeed, the White Paper’s example of a “non-policy” change (notification requirements relating to protected natural habitats) would remove a substantive protection for our natural environment, with potentially devastating impacts. Starmer promised to scrap the Great Repeal Bill and replace it with an ‘EU Rights and Protections Bill’. This is a better approach. It recognises that EU derived laws make a valuable contribution to our society. Even Brexit’s most extremist supporters would not begrudge people the right to be safe at work or laws that protect consumers from shoddy products and dishonest sales. Labour is right to make preserving such rights its starting point, and the promise of a Brexit that “brings people together” is laudable. But, for this to be a reality, Labour’s manifesto must deliver a more full-throated defence of parliamentary democracy and individual rights. Labour’s EU Rights and Protections Bill must do two things. First, it must scrap Henry VIII powers. They are undemocratic and unnecessary. At the very least, Labour must guarantee (on the face of the bill) such powers cannot erode substantive rights. This will allow individuals to hold the government to account in court if it starts to misuse its powers, and re-establish Parliament and elected representatives as the supreme decision-makers. UK General Election 2017               UK General Election 2017    18 April 2017   Media gather in Downing Street, London, ahead of a statement by Prime Minister Theresa May   PA wire     18 April 2017   Theresa May exits 10 Downing Street to announce snap election   EPA     18 April 2017   British Prime Minister Theresa May has called for an early general election   Getty Images     18 April 2017   Prime Minister Theresa May walks back into 10 Downing Street after making a statement to the nation   Getty Images     18 April 2017   Broadcast journalists set up on the green outside the Houses of Parliament after the prime minister announced that she will seek an early general election   Getty Images     18 April 2017   A newspaper stand shows a copy of today's Evening Standard, with the front page story relating to British Prime Minister Theresa May's call for a snap general election on June 8   Getty Images     18 April 2017   Labour party leader Jeremy Corbyn talks to carers during a visit to Birmingham Carers Hub to launch Labour's proposed Carer's Allowance increase   Getty Images     19 April 2017   Prime Minister Theresa May delivers a speech in Walmsley Parish Hall, Bolton, as she asked voters for the mandate to lead post-Brexit Britain ahead of the looming election campaign   PA wire     19 April 2017   Scotland's First Minister and Scottish National Party leader Nicola Sturgeon walks with deputy leader and member of parliament Angus Robertson during a media facility outside the Houses of Parliament   Getty Images     19 April 2017   Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May delivers a speech to Conservative Party members to launch their election campaign in Walmsley Parish Hall in Bolton, England   Getty Images     20 April 2017   Prime Minister Theresa May during a visit to radar manufacturer Kelvin Hughes Limited in Enfield, north Londo   PA wire     21 April 2017   Prime Minster Theresa May gives a short speech and at GSK in Maidenhead, England   Getty Images     21 April 2017   Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn reads with children as he visits Brentry Children Centre in Bristol, during Labour's election campaign   PA     24 April 2017   A tactical voting website in support of Labour.  The use of digital marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are likely to play and important role in the snap general election to be held on June 8   Getty Images     24 April 2017   Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn addresses the STUC conference in Aviemore.   PA     24 April 2017   Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron addresses supporters at a campaign event in Vauxhall, London   PA wire     24 April 2017   The Liberal Democrat party website is displayed on a laptop computer.  The use of digital marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are likely to play and important role in the snap general election to be held on June 8   Getty Images     24 April 2017   Party workers clear a hall following Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron's address to supporters at a campaign event in Vauxhall, London   PA wire     24 April 2017   The Conservative party website is displayed on a laptop computer in Bristol, England. The use of digital marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are likely to play and important role in the snap general election to be held on June 8   Getty Images     25 April 2017   Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer makes a speech outlining Labour's approach to Brexit   PA wire     25 April 2017   Prime Minister Theresa May speaks to a worker during a visit to a steel works in Newport, Wales   PA wire     25 April 2017   Prime Minister Theresa May speaks at the Brackla community centre in Bridgend, Wales   PA  Second, it must ensure the bill will transfer the entirety of EU derived law, (the ) into UK law. The Conservatives proposed to transfer only those aspects which were “practical, leaving the decision about what is “practical” to be made behind closed doors. We have just two years to prepare for Brexit. This is not enough time to sort through the in a democratic and accountable way. It is certainly not enough time to ensure that rights are not merely preserved on paper, but accompanied by the network of supporting rules and institutions that make them effective and enforceable. The only way to genuinely uphold our rights is to transfer EU law wholesale into UK law. We can then decide which EU derived laws to maintain, repeal, or replace in a thoughtful, transparent, and accountable manner, after Brexit. Brexit is the defining issue of our generation, and will represent a wholesale constitutional rewrite. Labour have started out in the right direction, but the country needs them to fully embrace the role of champion of democratic rights and individual liberties. More about: General Election 2017 Brexit Great Repeal Bill Comments

Keir Starmer yesterday called for an EU exit that brings the country together, and promised to protect the rights of workers, consumers, and environmental rights. These aspirations are to be applauded, but to achieve a Brexit that both unites the country and protects individual rights, Labour must go further. It needs to stop Theresa May’s Great Repeal Bill.

Following Brexit, the Prime Minister has proposed the Great Repeal Bill which will give the UK government sweeping powers to repeal all EU legislation currently in place without parliamentary approval. The bill is little more than an executive coup. It undermines Parliament and opens the door to a bonfire of individual rights. This is no mere academic point. Parliament is our supreme law making institution because it is accountable to voters. If Parliament is diminished, we are all disenfranchised.

The Great Repeal Bill will give the government a range of exceptional powers, including Henry VIII powers. These allow ministers and civil servants to scrap rights without a vote in Parliament. The breadth of these powers, and the unprecedented volume of law they will cover, means that the government will, effectively, be able to legislate without Parliament.

General Election 2017: What you need to know

The only limit on these exceptional powers, is the promise that they will not be used to make “policy changes”. But, as it seems only the government will have the power to decide what counts as a “policy change”, this does not represent any sort of meaningful accountability. Indeed, the White Paper’s example of a “non-policy” change (notification requirements relating to protected natural habitats) would remove a substantive protection for our natural environment, with potentially devastating impacts.

Starmer promised to scrap the Great Repeal Bill and replace it with an ‘EU Rights and Protections Bill’. This is a better approach. It recognises that EU derived laws make a valuable contribution to our society. Even Brexit’s most extremist supporters would not begrudge people the right to be safe at work or laws that protect consumers from shoddy products and dishonest sales.

Labour is right to make preserving such rights its starting point, and the promise of a Brexit that “brings people together” is laudable. But, for this to be a reality, Labour’s manifesto must deliver a more full-throated defence of parliamentary democracy and individual rights.

Labour’s EU Rights and Protections Bill must do two things. First, it must scrap Henry VIII powers. They are undemocratic and unnecessary. At the very least, Labour must guarantee (on the face of the bill) such powers cannot erode substantive rights. This will allow individuals to hold the government to account in court if it starts to misuse its powers, and re-establish Parliament and elected representatives as the supreme decision-makers.

UK General Election 2017







22 show all UK General Election 2017









































1/22 18 April 2017 Media gather in Downing Street, London, ahead of a statement by Prime Minister Theresa May PA wire

2/22 18 April 2017 Theresa May exits 10 Downing Street to announce snap election EPA

3/22 18 April 2017 British Prime Minister Theresa May has called for an early general election Getty Images

4/22 18 April 2017 Prime Minister Theresa May walks back into 10 Downing Street after making a statement to the nation Getty Images

5/22 18 April 2017 Broadcast journalists set up on the green outside the Houses of Parliament after the prime minister announced that she will seek an early general election Getty Images

6/22 18 April 2017 A newspaper stand shows a copy of today's Evening Standard, with the front page story relating to British Prime Minister Theresa May's call for a snap general election on June 8 Getty Images

7/22 18 April 2017 Labour party leader Jeremy Corbyn talks to carers during a visit to Birmingham Carers Hub to launch Labour's proposed Carer's Allowance increase Getty Images

8/22 19 April 2017 Prime Minister Theresa May delivers a speech in Walmsley Parish Hall, Bolton, as she asked voters for the mandate to lead post-Brexit Britain ahead of the looming election campaign PA wire

9/22 19 April 2017 Scotland's First Minister and Scottish National Party leader Nicola Sturgeon walks with deputy leader and member of parliament Angus Robertson during a media facility outside the Houses of Parliament Getty Images

10/22 19 April 2017 Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May delivers a speech to Conservative Party members to launch their election campaign in Walmsley Parish Hall in Bolton, England Getty Images

11/22 20 April 2017 Prime Minister Theresa May during a visit to radar manufacturer Kelvin Hughes Limited in Enfield, north Londo PA wire

12/22 21 April 2017 Prime Minster Theresa May gives a short speech and at GSK in Maidenhead, England Getty Images

13/22 21 April 2017 Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn reads with children as he visits Brentry Children Centre in Bristol, during Labour's election campaign PA

14/22 24 April 2017 A tactical voting website in support of Labour. The use of digital marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are likely to play and important role in the snap general election to be held on June 8 Getty Images

15/22 24 April 2017 Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn addresses the STUC conference in Aviemore. PA

16/22 24 April 2017 Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron addresses supporters at a campaign event in Vauxhall, London PA wire

17/22 24 April 2017 The Liberal Democrat party website is displayed on a laptop computer. The use of digital marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are likely to play and important role in the snap general election to be held on June 8 Getty Images

18/22 24 April 2017 Party workers clear a hall following Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron's address to supporters at a campaign event in Vauxhall, London PA wire

19/22 24 April 2017 The Conservative party website is displayed on a laptop computer in Bristol, England. The use of digital marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are likely to play and important role in the snap general election to be held on June 8 Getty Images

20/22 25 April 2017 Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer makes a speech outlining Labour's approach to Brexit PA wire

21/22 25 April 2017 Prime Minister Theresa May speaks to a worker during a visit to a steel works in Newport, Wales PA wire

22/22 25 April 2017 Prime Minister Theresa May speaks at the Brackla community centre in Bridgend, Wales PA

Second, it must ensure the bill will transfer the entirety of EU derived law, (the acquis communitaire) into UK law. The Conservatives proposed to transfer only those aspects which were “practical, leaving the decision about what is “practical” to be made behind closed doors.

We have just two years to prepare for Brexit. This is not enough time to sort through the acquis communitaire in a democratic and accountable way. It is certainly not enough time to ensure that rights are not merely preserved on paper, but accompanied by the network of supporting rules and institutions that make them effective and enforceable. The only way to genuinely uphold our rights is to transfer EU law wholesale into UK law. We can then decide which EU derived laws to maintain, repeal, or replace in a thoughtful, transparent, and accountable manner, after Brexit.

Brexit is the defining issue of our generation, and will represent a wholesale constitutional rewrite. Labour have started out in the right direction, but the country needs them to fully embrace the role of champion of democratic rights and individual liberties.

Sam Fowles is a researcher in law at Queen Mary University of London and a spokesperson for Another Europe is Possible