Comcast Beats Estimates as Film Unit Surprises at the Box Office
Comcast Beats Estimates as Film Unit Surprises at the Box Office
Comcast Corp. ’s foray into Hollywood is continuing to pay off, as box-office hits “Get Out” and “Fifty Shades Darker” helped the cable giant easily beat Wall Street projections for first-quarter earnings. The results offer the latest proof of Comcast’s ascent to the heights of the American entertainment industry, a trajectory that seemed unlikely when the Philadelphia-based company bought NBCUniversal in 2011. Comcast is now showing its might as a multi-layered entertainment titan that can compete head-on with Walt Disney Co. for TV audiences, moviegoers and tourists. The two films -- “Fifty Shades Darker,” the sequel to “Fifty Shades of Grey”; and “Get Out,” the critically acclaimed horror film -- drove a 43 percent increase in sales for Comcast’s Universal unit. That fueled profit of 53 cents a share, which exceeded even the highest estimate for first-quarter earnings per share. In all, sales at the NBCUniversal group, which includes the NBC broadcast network, cable channels such as USA and MSNBC, the Universal film studio and theme parks, grew 15 percent to $7.87 billion. The shares rose 2.1 percent to $39.60 in early New York trading Thursday. Comcast is also reversing a trend of cord-cutting. The largest cable operator added pay-TV customers for the fifth time in the past six quarters, reclaiming some market share from competitors and fighting off new online rivals. Comcast signed up 32,000 new cable-TV customers in the period, falling short of the 37,300 average of three analysts’ estimates . It added 37,000 a year ago. Comcast executives attributed the turnaround largely to the company’s new video platform, called X1, which makes it easier to search for shows and movies, as well as YouTube and Netflix, from their cable set-top box. X1 is in about half of Comcast homes. At the same time, the company is continuing to add residential high-speed internet subscribers. Comcast signed up 397,000 new broadband customers in the quarter, shy of the average prediction of 400,000 from three analysts. It signed up 403,000 broadband subscribers in the same quarter a year ago. Earlier this month, Comcast unveiled a mobile phone service that lets subscribers make calls and surf the web using Verizon’s wireless network and Comcast’s millions of Wi-Fi hotspots. The company plans to bundle the new wireless service with its other products to keep video and broadband subscribers from leaving.

Comcast Corp.’s foray into Hollywood is continuing to pay off, as box-office hits “Get Out” and “Fifty Shades Darker” helped the cable giant easily beat Wall Street projections for first-quarter earnings.

The results offer the latest proof of Comcast’s ascent to the heights of the American entertainment industry, a trajectory that seemed unlikely when the Philadelphia-based company bought NBCUniversal in 2011. Comcast is now showing its might as a multi-layered entertainment titan that can compete head-on with Walt Disney Co. for TV audiences, moviegoers and tourists.

The two films -- “Fifty Shades Darker,” the sequel to “Fifty Shades of Grey”; and “Get Out,” the critically acclaimed horror film -- drove a 43 percent increase in sales for Comcast’s Universal unit. That fueled profit of 53 cents a share, which exceeded even the highest estimate for first-quarter earnings per share.

In all, sales at the NBCUniversal group, which includes the NBC broadcast network, cable channels such as USA and MSNBC, the Universal film studio and theme parks, grew 15 percent to $7.87 billion.

The shares rose 2.1 percent to $39.60 in early New York trading Thursday.

Comcast is also reversing a trend of cord-cutting. The largest cable operator added pay-TV customers for the fifth time in the past six quarters, reclaiming some market share from competitors and fighting off new online rivals. Comcast signed up 32,000 new cable-TV customers in the period, falling short of the 37,300 average of three analysts’ estimates. It added 37,000 a year ago.

Comcast executives attributed the turnaround largely to the company’s new video platform, called X1, which makes it easier to search for shows and movies, as well as YouTube and Netflix, from their cable set-top box. X1 is in about half of Comcast homes.

At the same time, the company is continuing to add residential high-speed internet subscribers. Comcast signed up 397,000 new broadband customers in the quarter, shy of the average prediction of 400,000 from three analysts. It signed up 403,000 broadband subscribers in the same quarter a year ago.

Earlier this month, Comcast unveiled a mobile phone service that lets subscribers make calls and surf the web using Verizon’s wireless network and Comcast’s millions of Wi-Fi hotspots. The company plans to bundle the new wireless service with its other products to keep video and broadband subscribers from leaving.