Haim Returns With New "Right Now" Video Directed by Paul Thomas Anderson
Haim Returns With New "Right Now" Video Directed by Paul Thomas Anderson
A lot of time has passed since the release of Haim 's debut album . The album, released through Polydor in 2013, ultimately produced six critically acclaimed singles and landed on damn near every single publication's year-end lists . And now, four long years later, Haim is back with new track "Right Now." "This is where we start, live in the studio," Haim said in a Facebook post Thursday. "We were so lucky to work with the amazing Paul Thomas Anderson on capturing just us. One take, live, at Valentine Studios during the recording of our second album. There's more to come, but this is it for right now." "Right Now" will appear on Haim's new album , due July 7 through Columbia Records. The track's Anderson-directed video premiered during a special family, friends, and fans event at Canters on Fairfax Wednesday night. Canters, of course, is where Haim played their first show nearly 18 years ago. The new album features production from Ariel Rechtshaid, who previously worked with Haim on . To mark the release of their long-awaited new music, Haim sat down with Beats 1's Zane Lowe . Catch that discussion in full below: Haim will debut live renditions of material next month on . The band serves as the musical guest for the May 13 episode, hosted by highly skilled Sean Spicer mocker Melissa McCarthy . Happy May! #SNL  pic.twitter.com/lUN9sdiAWV

A lot of time has passed since the release of Haim's debut album Days Are Gone. The album, released through Polydor in 2013, ultimately produced six critically acclaimed singles and landed on damn near every single publication's year-end lists. And now, four long years later, Haim is back with new track "Right Now."

"This is where we start, live in the studio," Haim said in a Facebook post Thursday. "We were so lucky to work with the amazing Paul Thomas Anderson on capturing just us. One take, live, at Valentine Studios during the recording of our second album. There's more to come, but this is it for right now."

"Right Now" will appear on Haim's new album Something to Tell You, due July 7 through Columbia Records. The track's Anderson-directed video premiered during a special family, friends, and fans event at Canters on Fairfax Wednesday night. Canters, of course, is where Haim played their first show nearly 18 years ago. The new album features production from Ariel Rechtshaid, who previously worked with Haim on Days Are Gone.

To mark the release of their long-awaited new music, Haim sat down with Beats 1's Zane Lowe. Catch that discussion in full below:

Haim will debut live renditions of Something to Tell You material next month on Saturday Night Live. The band serves as the musical guest for the May 13 episode, hosted by highly skilled Sean Spicer mocker Melissa McCarthy.