Backyard chickens could soon be banned in the nation's capitol
Backyard chickens could soon be banned in the nation's capital
Shares               Backyard chickens might soon be banned from the nation’s capital, if Mayor Muriel Bowser’s proposal to make chicken ownership in the city illegal becomes law. At a news conference on Thursday, Bowser said she was concerned about the conditions the chickens might create for Washington, D.C. "The provision is that we keep neighborhoods safe, and clean and rodent-free," she said. "This is a city. And it’s not usually the chickens that are the problem, but what they leave behind." The city has long said backyard chicken ownership is illegal, even under the allowance for "common cage birds" that some have argued applies. Some D.C. residents are worried about the possible ban, which is included in Bowser’s 2018 budget bill and could affect the group of urban farmers with chickens being displaced. The proposed ban has been the subject of backlash from some residents, especially since the mayor’s office has not provided a reason. "I would be very unhappy if my chickens would be banned. They are amazing," a D.C. resident who wants to be called by her first name, Kathy, told ABC News. She said she's had chickens for three years now. Besides keeping chickens as pets, some backyard chicken owners say they prefer eating their home-grown eggs. Kathy believes the eggs taste better because owners have the ability to feed the chickens a healthier diet. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have traced salmonella outbreaks to backyard birds. In 2016, eight outbreaks of salmonella infections across several states were linked to live poultry in backyard flocks; they were tied to 895 infections and more than 200 hospitalizations. D.C. attorney Allison Sheedy and her husband Dan McInnis created the website dcbackyardchicken.org to start a petition against the ban, after their own legal battle to obtain a permit for their four chickens. Within a week of launching the site, they had more than 500 signatures. The couple said they were upset when they heard about this new proposal to ban backyard chickens in the city. "Hopefully the change of law won’t go through," Sheedy told ABC News, "because it’s not appropriate to stick this in the budget." Like Kathy, Sheedy believes that the chickens are good for the environment and considers them family members. "It’s been really fun for our kids," said Sheedy. The group is planning on attend the hearing at the Department of Health Budget Oversight on May 5th to raise their objections to the ban.    Shares                  Backyard chickens could soon be banned in the nation's capital   Treasury secretary can't guarantee middle class wouldn't pay more under tax plan   Trump: Mexico, Canada opposed terminating NAFTA   Nearly half of Americans think there's a 'deep state' in US: Poll   Trump 'absolutely' considered breaking up 9th Circuit Court   Hours-long standoff with suspect in fatal shooting of state trooper   Monument review includes oceans, tribal lands and Sequoias   Boris Johnson says UK likely to strike Syria if asked by US   China bans list of Islamic names in restive Xinjiang region   Storm-related death toll rises to 2 in North Carolina   Jury sentences ambush killer to death penalty   One woman's story of 'exercise addiction' shows the consequences   High school student athlete surprised with full college scholarship   Rapping maid of honor channels 'Real Slim Shady' in wedding speech   Baby's newborn photos celebrate firefighter mom, police officer dad   97-year-old fulfills lifelong firefighting dream on his birthday   Study links emotional feeding in children to emotional eating later in life   Last sections of beloved 600-year-old tree removed at church   Overnight explosion rocks Damascus; Syrian government blames Israel   Merkel: Britain should hold no illusions exit will be easy   UN rights expert to visit Panama after 'Panama Papers' leak   British teen admits planning London bomb attack   Pope faces balancing act in Egypt amid security fears   Trump tax plan leaves Congress, Ryan with heavy lift   13 Louisiana-Lafayette players arrested over theft charges   New Mexico delves into soda tax fight   Hot Switch sales boost Nintendo sales, trim quarterly loss   Poland signs first deal to buy natural gas from US supplier   Delta passenger kicked off flight after bathroom emergency   New details emerge from internal report on United flight dustup   Contrasting accounts of Arkansas execution from witnesses   Coulter's Berkeley speech canceled, police prep for violence   'Yep, I'm Gay': Happy 20th out anniversary, Ellen DeGeneres   Prince Jackson explains his personal connection to foster youth   As Trump calls for wall, a look at the world's barriers   11-year-old boy stabs home intruder in mom's defense   Dale Earnhardt Jr. opens up about his retirement: 'I don’t want to let anybody down'   Late director Jonathan Demme's best-known films

Backyard chickens might soon be banned from the nation’s capital, if Mayor Muriel Bowser’s proposal to make chicken ownership in the city illegal becomes law.

At a news conference on Thursday, Bowser said she was concerned about the conditions the chickens might create for Washington, D.C.

"The provision is that we keep neighborhoods safe, and clean and rodent-free," she said. "This is a city. And it’s not usually the chickens that are the problem, but what they leave behind."

The city has long said backyard chicken ownership is illegal, even under the allowance for "common cage birds" that some have argued applies.

Some D.C. residents are worried about the possible ban, which is included in Bowser’s 2018 budget bill and could affect the group of urban farmers with chickens being displaced. The proposed ban has been the subject of backlash from some residents, especially since the mayor’s office has not provided a reason.

"I would be very unhappy if my chickens would be banned. They are amazing," a D.C. resident who wants to be called by her first name, Kathy, told ABC News. She said she's had chickens for three years now.

Besides keeping chickens as pets, some backyard chicken owners say they prefer eating their home-grown eggs. Kathy believes the eggs taste better because owners have the ability to feed the chickens a healthier diet.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have traced salmonella outbreaks to backyard birds. In 2016, eight outbreaks of salmonella infections across several states were linked to live poultry in backyard flocks; they were tied to 895 infections and more than 200 hospitalizations.

D.C. attorney Allison Sheedy and her husband Dan McInnis created the website dcbackyardchicken.org to start a petition against the ban, after their own legal battle to obtain a permit for their four chickens. Within a week of launching the site, they had more than 500 signatures.

The couple said they were upset when they heard about this new proposal to ban backyard chickens in the city.

"Hopefully the change of law won’t go through," Sheedy told ABC News, "because it’s not appropriate to stick this in the budget."

Like Kathy, Sheedy believes that the chickens are good for the environment and considers them family members.

"It’s been really fun for our kids," said Sheedy.

The group is planning on attend the hearing at the Department of Health Budget Oversight on May 5th to raise their objections to the ban.

ABC News' Bianca Seidman contributed to this report.