Trump aides set to air differences over Paris climate deal
Trump aides set to air differences over Paris climate deal
Trump aides set to air differences over Paris climate deal Updated 1231 GMT (2031 HKT) April 27, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights A final decision is not expected to come from Thursday's session Trump's final decision will come to symbolize his aides' influence -- or lack thereof President Donald Trump's top advisers plan to meet on Thursday to discuss withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate accord, a point of contention in the West Wing that Trump has vowed to resolve by the end of next month.

Story highlights A final decision is not expected to come from Thursday's session

Trump's final decision will come to symbolize his aides' influence -- or lack thereof

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump's top advisers plan to meet on Thursday to discuss withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate accord, a point of contention in the West Wing that Trump has vowed to resolve by the end of next month.

A final decision is not expected to come from Thursday's session, which Trump himself is not expected to attend. But the arguments for and against pulling out of the landmark carbon reduction deal have now been aired publicly, and Trump's final decision will come to symbolize his aides' influence -- or lack thereof -- in the early days of his administration.

Trump's advisers are set to hold a "robust discussion" on withdrawal from the agreement, a person close to the White House said, following in-house analytical work by the National Economic and Domestic Policy Councils.

The person characterized the debate as going beyond merely a policy dispute over the deal's carbon reduction targets. Instead, aides are weighing the repercussions of removing the US from a pact that almost every country in the world signed onto in 2015.

"To some people, Paris is more than just an environmental deal," a person familiar with the talks said. "I don't want to say heated, but it's been a passionate discussion."

Read More