National Green Tribunal Issues Contempt Notice To Sri Sri Ravi Shankar After He Blamed Government For Permitting World Cultural Festival In Yamuna Floodplains, Art Of Living Denies It
NGT Slaps Contempt Notice To Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Over Yamuna Floodplains Issue, AoL Denies It
NGT Slaps Contempt Notice To Sri Sri Ravi Shankar For Blaming Govt For Yamuna Floodplain Damage, Art Of Living Denies It Days after , in an unusual move, blamed the Centre and the National Green Tribunal for damaging Yamuna floodplains by allowing his NGO to hold a cultural extravaganza last year, the NGT has served a contempt notice to him. The NGT bench headed by Chairperson Justice Swatanter Kumar issued a notice to Ravi Shankar while seeking his reply before May 9. ALSO READ: The plea filed by activist Manoj Misra has sought action against Ravi Shankar and said his remarks interfered with free and fair dispensation of justice. In a statement published on the AOL’s website, Ravishankar had blamed the government and the NGT for permitting AOL to hold the function and said his foundation had obtained all necessary permissions, including from the green panel, and the event could have been stopped in the beginning itself if the river was so “fragile and pure”. ALSO READ: In the plea filed through advocates Ritwick Dutta and Rahul Choudhary, Misra said the AOL head was “in the habit” of making statements to “denigrate the dignity and status of this tribunal, which was an interference in the fair dispensation of justice”, that is the bedrock of the rule of law.

Days after Art of Living foundation’s Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, in an unusual move, blamed the Centre and the National Green Tribunal for damaging Yamuna floodplains by allowing his NGO to hold a cultural extravaganza last year, the NGT has served a contempt notice to him.

The NGT bench headed by Chairperson Justice Swatanter Kumar issued a notice to Ravi Shankar while seeking his reply before May 9.

ALSO READ: It Is An All Out War Of Words Between The National Green Tribunal And Sri Sri Ravishankar

BCCL

The plea filed by activist Manoj Misra has sought action against Ravi Shankar and said his remarks interfered with free and fair dispensation of justice.

In a statement published on the AOL’s website, Ravishankar had blamed the government and the NGT for permitting AOL to hold the function and said his foundation had obtained all necessary permissions, including from the green panel, and the event could have been stopped in the beginning itself if the river was so “fragile and pure”.

ALSO READ: Sri Sri Ravishankar’s Art Of Living Destroyed Yamuna Floodplains; Rs 42.02 Cr, 10 Years Needed For Restoration

BCCL

In the plea filed through advocates Ritwick Dutta and Rahul Choudhary, Misra said the AOL head was “in the habit” of making statements to “denigrate the dignity and status of this tribunal, which was an interference in the fair dispensation of justice”, that is the bedrock of the rule of law.

With Agency inputs