8 Iconic Bollywood Movies That Prove Vinod Khanna Was The Most Charming Actor Of His Time
8 Iconic Bollywood Movies That Prove Vinod Khanna Was The Most Charming Actor Of His Time
8 Iconic Bollywood Movies That Prove Vinod Khanna Was The Most Charming Actor Of His Time Veteran actor Vinod Khanna passed away this morning. The 70-year-old was suffering from bladder cancer. The actor was admitted to H.N Reliance Foundation and Research Centre in Girgaon, Mumbai. Let's take a look at some of his outstanding work in Bollywood cinema. 1. Dabangg He was last sen in but his most recent work, was the finest work. Starring with Salman Khan, Vinod Khanna played the role of his father in the film. 2. Amar Akbar Anthony He was the only actor to hold his own against Amitabh Bachchan in the 70's. The film revolving around religious tolerance became a landmark in Bollywood masala films. It also had a lasting impact on the pop culture, with its catchy songs and one-liners. 3. Muqaddar Ka Sikandar The film was the top grossing hit of 1978. was the third biggest hit of the decade after and . The film was such a huge hit, that people used to stand in queues, waiting endlessly, to buy the film's tickets. Many times, the crowd even slept in front of the cinema halls overnight in their wait for the tickets. 4. Imtihan The story of the film revolved around an idealistic professor, Vinod Khanna, who decided to reform a group of rowdy students at a college. It was inspired by the 1967 British film  , and had even inspired the television series . Vinod can be seen wearing big glasses back in the bay which became a huge fashion trend at that time. 5. Dayavan 8 years ago on this very day, Feroz Khan passed away and now we lost his and partner, Vinod Khanna. This movie became sensational due to the famous smooch scene between Madhuri Dixit and Vinod Khanna. The song 'Aaj Phir Tumpe Pyaar Aaya Hai' originally is from this film.

Veteran actor Vinod Khanna passed away this morning. The 70-year-old was suffering from bladder cancer.

Vinod Khanna

The actor was admitted to H.N Reliance Foundation and Research Centre in Girgaon, Mumbai.

Let's take a look at some of his outstanding work in Bollywood cinema.

1. Dabangg

Dabangg

He was last sen in Dilwale but his most recent work, Dabangg was the finest work. Starring with Salman Khan, Vinod Khanna played the role of his father in the film.

2. Amar Akbar Anthony

He was the only actor to hold his own against Amitabh Bachchan in the 70's. The film revolving around religious tolerance became a landmark in Bollywood masala films. It also had a lasting impact on the pop culture, with its catchy songs and one-liners.

3. Muqaddar Ka Sikandar

The film was the top grossing hit of 1978. Muqaddar Ka Sikandar was the third biggest hit of the decade after Sholay and Bobby. The film was such a huge hit, that people used to stand in queues, waiting endlessly, to buy the film's tickets. Many times, the crowd even slept in front of the cinema halls overnight in their wait for the tickets.

4. Imtihan

Imtihan screengrab

The story of the film revolved around an idealistic professor, Vinod Khanna, who decided to reform a group of rowdy students at a college. It was inspired by the 1967 British film To Sir, With Love, and had even inspired the television series Jeet. Vinod can be seen wearing big glasses back in the bay which became a huge fashion trend at that time.

5. Dayavan

8 years ago on this very day, Feroz Khan passed away and now we lost his Dayavan and Qurbaani partner, Vinod Khanna. This movie became sensational due to the famous smooch scene between Madhuri Dixit and Vinod Khanna. The song 'Aaj Phir Tumpe Pyaar Aaya Hai' originally is from this film.

Don't Miss 14.4 K SHARES 40.8 K SHARES 60 K SHARES 21.8 K SHARES

6. The Burning Train

This is one iconic movie that can be seen over and over again. Despite being a multi-starrer featuring Dharmendra, Hema Malini, Parveen Babi, Jeetendra, Neetu Singh, Vinod Mehra, Danny Denzongpa, Vinod Khanna's role stood out the most.

The plot revolves around a train named Super Express that catches fire on its inaugural run from New Delhi to Mumbai.

7. Khoon Ki Pukaar

Khoon Ki Pukaar

Vinod Khanna was one of the few Hindi actors who began by playing villains and moved on to play the hero. He plays a negative character in Khoon Ki Pukaar (1978) alongside Shabana Azmi. In period 1974-1982 Vinod Khanna was paid more than Jeetendra and more than Amitabh Bachchan. In post-1987 period, Vinod Khanna was paid more than Rishi Kapoor, Govinda, Sanjay Dutt, Rajnikanth, Salman Khan in the films he did with them from 1987-1995.

8. Qurbani

Qurbani became a box office success and the biggest hit of the year, earning 6,00,00,000 at the box office. The songs were popular and the movie sold the most number of records and tapes in that year. It is said the music and songs ushered in the "Disco Revolution" in India that lasted until the mid-80s.