Where The Streets Are Paved With Green: Counting Urban Trees
Where The Streets Are Paved With Green: Counting Urban Trees
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Laurie Winkless       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. I am a big fan of trees. Apart from the fact that they are beautiful, they also offer multiple benefits to cities (as I mentioned in a previous article ). For a start, they lower the ambient temperature by absorbing shortwave radiation, and using much of it to evaporate water from their leaves…. A very useful thing at a time when the ‘urban heat island’ effect is putting unparalleled demand on energy supplies (mainly for air-con). Of course, trees also absorb CO from the atmosphere and produce oxygen, and their roots can help mitigate flooding during storms. In addition, there is widespread scientific consensus that green spaces have a positive impact on the health and well-being of a city’s residents. In short, cities need more trees. MIT Senseable City Lab This image shows Toronto in all its green goodness (Image credit: MIT Senseable City Lab) This isn’t news to anyone – in fact in in 2015, the World Economic Forum’s Council on the Future of Cities included ‘increasing green canopies’ in urban areas as a priority for the coming years. So now they’ve teamed up with researchers at MIT’s Senseable City Lab , to build an online database of urban trees, called Treepedia . Of course, those who manage forests have been carrying out aerial surveys on tree canopies for decades – and there was a recent (ambitious) attempt to count all of the trees on Earth . But rather than using remote sensing to produce their maps, the MIT team looked to a tool many of us use on a daily basis – Google Street View™ . Street View has been around since 2007, and is, in effect, a vast online repository of location-stamped video footage, collected by heavily-instrumented cars, driven down streets all over the world. It gives anyone with internet access an opportunity to virtually explore any city at street-level. For the researchers, it also offered a unique way for them to assess the green canopy of urban areas. They took this approach because, as the team described in the accompanying research paper , Things like green walls, or shrubs that sit under a canopy of trees would naturally be missed by aerial / satellite imaging, but from the ground, they are easily seen. So these researchers would argue that, if you’re a planner who wants to understand how much greenery your city’s residents really interact with, a profile view (i.e. one taken from street level) – paints the most complete picture. So, how did they do it? Well, they firstly had to stitch together 18 pictures from Street View to produce a panorama for each site. Then they needed to find a way to automatically identify green vegetation in these images. They used the fact that every Street View image is built from three other images – taken at red, green, and blue wavelengths (the so-called, RGB color model ). As you might expect, green vegetation has high reflectance in the green band, and relatively low reflectance in the red and blue bands, which helped the team to identify green areas. By looking at the images pixel-by-pixel, they could then define a metric called the Green View Index (GVI), which is the ratio of the green area to the non-green area for that site, expressed as a percentage. Because the data is built on an open platform, and the GVI metric is calculated in a highly-repeatable manner, it offers cities a way to evaluate and directly compare their green canopy to that of other cities. MIT Senseable City Lab This image compares some of the twenty cities that has so far been mapped (Image credit: MIT Senseable City Lab) Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Treepedia uses Google Street View data to measure how green the world’s cities are.

I am a big fan of trees. Apart from the fact that they are beautiful, they also offer multiple benefits to cities (as I mentioned in a previous article). For a start, they lower the ambient temperature by absorbing shortwave radiation, and using much of it to evaporate water from their leaves…. A very useful thing at a time when the ‘urban heat island’ effect is putting unparalleled demand on energy supplies (mainly for air-con). Of course, trees also absorb CO 2 from the atmosphere and produce oxygen, and their roots can help mitigate flooding during storms. In addition, there is widespread scientific consensus that green spaces have a positive impact on the health and well-being of a city’s residents. In short, cities need more trees.

MIT Senseable City Lab

This isn’t news to anyone – in fact in in 2015, the World Economic Forum’s Council on the Future of Cities included ‘increasing green canopies’ in urban areas as a priority for the coming years. So now they’ve teamed up with researchers at MIT’s Senseable City Lab, to build an online database of urban trees, called Treepedia.

Of course, those who manage forests have been carrying out aerial surveys on tree canopies for decades – and there was a recent (ambitious) attempt to count all of the trees on Earth. But rather than using remote sensing to produce their maps, the MIT team looked to a tool many of us use on a daily basis – Google Street View™. Street View has been around since 2007, and is, in effect, a vast online repository of location-stamped video footage, collected by heavily-instrumented cars, driven down streets all over the world. It gives anyone with internet access an opportunity to virtually explore any city at street-level. For the researchers, it also offered a unique way for them to assess the green canopy of urban areas.

They took this approach because, as the team described in the accompanying research paper, “The profile view of urban vegetation that people see on the ground—precisely the most common view people have of greenery — is different from the overhead view captured by most remote sensing methods.” Things like green walls, or shrubs that sit under a canopy of trees would naturally be missed by aerial / satellite imaging, but from the ground, they are easily seen. So these researchers would argue that, if you’re a planner who wants to understand how much greenery your city’s residents really interact with, a profile view (i.e. one taken from street level) – paints the most complete picture.

So, how did they do it? Well, they firstly had to stitch together 18 pictures from Street View to produce a panorama for each site. Then they needed to find a way to automatically identify green vegetation in these images. They used the fact that every Street View image is built from three other images – taken at red, green, and blue wavelengths (the so-called, RGB color model). As you might expect, green vegetation has high reflectance in the green band, and relatively low reflectance in the red and blue bands, which helped the team to identify green areas. By looking at the images pixel-by-pixel, they could then define a metric called the Green View Index (GVI), which is the ratio of the green area to the non-green area for that site, expressed as a percentage. Because the data is built on an open platform, and the GVI metric is calculated in a highly-repeatable manner, it offers cities a way to evaluate and directly compare their green canopy to that of other cities. (CONTINUED...)