Cheap Trick Debuts 'Long Time Coming' Single From 'We're All Alright!' Album: Exclusive
Cheap Trick Debuts 'Long Time Coming' Single From 'We're All Alright!' Album: Exclusive
Latin Trap's 'Big Big Future' Panel With Messiah, Bad Bunny, Farruko and More at Billboard Latin Music Conference Watch the Latinx Activism Panel With Becky G, Jackie Cruz and More Live From 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Servando Reveals the Secret to Writing for Enrique Iglesias at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference More Exclusive Coverage on The Billboard Latin Music Awards on Telemundo Cheap Trick Debuts 'Long Time Coming' Single From 'We're All Alright!' Album: Exclusive  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  What's in the water Cheap Trick is drinking these days? Last year the group's Â was its first in seven years. But the new Â follows closely on its heels on June 16 -- check out the first single "Long Time Coming" exclusively below -- marking the first time in more than 20 years the group has released albums in consecutive years, since the one-two punch of Â and Â in 1985 and 1986, respectively. "Y'know, we always write, but it's more fun to write for a project and write for a reason," guitarist Rick Nielsen tells . "We have a company (Big Machine Records) that believes in us and they like the work and they're letting us make more records, which is cool. Making records is one of the ambitions we've always had. I don't think the desire has ever gone away." Cheap Trick recorded Â -- whose title, of course, references the 1978 hit "Surrender" and 1999's "That '70s Song" -- with Julian Raymond, who also helmed .Â Its 10 tracks (13 on the deluxe edition) hail from the group's past and present, with older, previouslyÂ unrecorded songs such as "Radio Lover," "Lolita" and "She's Alright" sitting alongside material written and recorded specifically for the album. "Long Time Coming," a crunchy hard rocker driven by a Kinks-flavored riff, is a bit of a one-song tribute to Cheap Trick's influential forebears. "It's our interpretation of Slade and MC5 and AC/DC and Aerosmith -- a lot of riffs that are reminiscent of the Move , but they're not steals," Nielsen says. "It's just, like, all the bands we like." The song also features a synthesizer underbelly that was a signature in "Surrender," "Dream Police" and other Cheap Trick songs.  Nielsen, meanwhile, says another new album in 2018 is a distinct possibility. "Starting in May we're going back in the studio," he says. "There's stuff around and there's some ideas that never did get fleshed out, which we hope to. It's exciting." Â will be available for pre-order starting May 5, with "Long Time Coming" and "Lolita" as instant grat tracks. Both songs are available now for individual purchase, and the group will offer more early purchase perks via a PleadgeMusic campaign . Â Meanwhile, Cheap Trick will be promoting the album with a summer tour with Foreigner and John Bonham's Led Zeppelin Experience; Foreigner and Cheap Trick will both be celebrating 40th anniversaries, Cheap Trick for the release of its first two albums in 1977.  "There's a lot of good songs," Nielsen says. "They had so many hits, and we've had a number of hits. When we were doing shows together back then (Foreigner founder) Mick Jones used to grab the guys in his band and point at us and say, 'Now THAT's a band,' 'cause (Foreigner) was kind of put together. I think he saw us as, like, a real band as opposed to a bunch of different players put together." You Got It Going On Long Time Coming Nowhere Radio Lover Lolita Brand New Name On An Old Tattoo Floating Down She's Alright Listen To Me The Rest Of My Life Â Blackberry Way (The Move cover) Like A Fly If You Still Want My Love  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

What's in the water Cheap Trick is drinking these days?

Last year the group's Bang, Zoom, Crazy...HelloÂ was its first in seven years. But the new We're All Alright!Â follows closely on its heels on June 16 -- check out the first single "Long Time Coming" exclusively below -- marking the first time in more than 20 years the group has released albums in consecutive years, since the one-two punch of Standing On The EdgeÂ and The DoctorÂ in 1985 and 1986, respectively.

"Y'know, we always write, but it's more fun to write for a project and write for a reason," guitarist Rick Nielsen tells Billboard. "We have a company (Big Machine Records) that believes in us and they like the work and they're letting us make more records, which is cool. Making records is one of the ambitions we've always had. I don't think the desire has ever gone away."

Cheap Trick recorded We're All Alright!Â -- whose title, of course, references the 1978 hit "Surrender" and 1999's "That '70s Song" -- with Julian Raymond, who also helmed Bang, Zoom, Crazy...Hello.Â Its 10 tracks (13 on the deluxe edition) hail from the group's past and present, with older, previouslyÂ unrecorded songs such as "Radio Lover," "Lolita" and "She's Alright" sitting alongside material written and recorded specifically for the album.

"Long Time Coming," a crunchy hard rocker driven by a Kinks-flavored riff, is a bit of a one-song tribute to Cheap Trick's influential forebears. "It's our interpretation of Slade and MC5 and AC/DC and Aerosmith -- a lot of riffs that are reminiscent of the Move, but they're not steals," Nielsen says. "It's just, like, all the bands we like." The song also features a synthesizer underbelly that was a signature in "Surrender," "Dream Police" and other Cheap Trick songs.

Nielsen, meanwhile, says another new album in 2018 is a distinct possibility. "Starting in May we're going back in the studio," he says. "There's stuff around and there's some ideas that never did get fleshed out, which we hope to. It's exciting."

We're All Alright!Â will be available for pre-order starting May 5, with "Long Time Coming" and "Lolita" as instant grat tracks. Both songs are available now for individual purchase, and the group will offer more early purchase perks via a PleadgeMusic campaign. Â Meanwhile, Cheap Trick will be promoting the album with a summer tour with Foreigner and John Bonham's Led Zeppelin Experience; Foreigner and Cheap Trick will both be celebrating 40th anniversaries, Cheap Trick for the release of its first two albums in 1977.

"There's a lot of good songs," Nielsen says. "They had so many hits, and we've had a number of hits. When we were doing shows together back then (Foreigner founder) Mick Jones used to grab the guys in his band and point at us and say, 'Now THAT's a band,' 'cause (Foreigner) was kind of put together. I think he saw us as, like, a real band as opposed to a bunch of different players put together."

The full track list for We're All Alright!Â features:

You Got It Going On

Long Time Coming

Nowhere

Radio Lover

Lolita

Brand New Name On An Old Tattoo

Floating Down

She's Alright

Listen To Me

The Rest Of My Life

Â

Deluxe Tracks:

Blackberry Way (The Move cover)

Like A Fly

If You Still Want My Love