Delaware standoff over: Trooper's killer shot dead after barricading himself in home
Delaware standoff over: Trooper's killer shot dead after barricading himself in home
Police and Law Enforcement Delaware standoff over: Trooper's killer shot dead after barricading himself in home   The man who shot and killed a Delaware trooper was killed Thursday morning in a gunbattle with law enforcement after a standoff at his home that stretched on for more than 12 hours, state police confirmed. As police closed in on his house in Middletown with an armored bulldozer, the unnamed gunman burst out of the home around 9:17 a.m. and started firing, investigators said. Police returned fire, and he was pronounced dead some 12 minutes later. The killer had fired at officers trying to negotiate a surrender outside his home around 4 a.m., Fox 29 reported . It was not known what type of weapon he was using. There were no reported injuries; people living in the area had evacuated. During gunfights overnight police in Delaware appear to have blown apart every window&door of wanted trooper killer's home @FOX29philly  pic.twitter.com/VJ9MEBlQEr The standoff unfolded after the man gunned down a state trooper in a Wawa parking lot Wednesday in Bear, a Wilmington suburb about 20 minutes from Middletown. The trooper had approached a "suspicious vehicle" with two men inside, State Police Superintendent Nathaniel McQueen said. A struggle ensued and the one of the men shot the trooper multiple times before escaping, McQueen added. Police arrested the second man at the scene of the shooting. Photos and video showed extensive damage to the killer's home, with the windows and doors blown out. Police said they used an explosive device to blow open the front door Wednesday night but did not enter. One witness to the trooper's killing, Clarence Travers, told The News Journal of Wilmington that he heard gunfire while sitting at a red light and saw a police officer fall to the ground. After the initial gunfire, Travers said he saw a man get out of a car and shoot the officer on the ground more than once before getting away.  Police have not corroborated Travers' version of events. Delaware State police marked armored bulldozer just drove past us to home of gunman, there may be concern home boobyttapped @FOX29philly  pic.twitter.com/xpQRMHckZc The trooper was identified late Wednesday as Cpl. Stephen J. Ballard, 32. He had been on the force for more than eight years, according to state police spokesman Sgt. Richard Bratz.  "This is a sad day for our state and for the Delaware State Police family," McQueen said, with Gov. John Carney at his side. "My heart is with the officer's family and the officers who have served beside him," Carney, a Democrat, said in a statement. Sarah Adkins, 18, who lives with her parents on the same street where the killer was barricaded, said that shortly after arriving home early Thursday afternoon, she started hearing sporadic gunfire that lasted for about an hour and resumed at other intervals.  "It's been scary," said Adkins, who was told by police to go to her basement and stay there.  Adkins said the man believed to be the suspect went to school with her brothers, and has always seemed friendly, smiling and waving at her when she last saw him a couple of weeks ago.

The man who shot and killed a Delaware trooper was killed Thursday morning in a gunbattle with law enforcement after a standoff at his home that stretched on for more than 12 hours, state police confirmed.

As police closed in on his house in Middletown with an armored bulldozer, the unnamed gunman burst out of the home around 9:17 a.m. and started firing, investigators said. Police returned fire, and he was pronounced dead some 12 minutes later.

The killer had fired at officers trying to negotiate a surrender outside his home around 4 a.m., Fox 29 reported. It was not known what type of weapon he was using. There were no reported injuries; people living in the area had evacuated.

During gunfights overnight police in Delaware appear to have blown apart every window&door of wanted trooper killer's home @FOX29philly pic.twitter.com/VJ9MEBlQEr — Steve Keeley (@KeeleyFox29) April 27, 2017

ERIC FREIN TRIAL: JURY SENTENCES PENNSYLVANIA TROOPER'S AMBUSH KILLER

The standoff unfolded after the man gunned down a state trooper in a Wawa parking lot Wednesday in Bear, a Wilmington suburb about 20 minutes from Middletown.

The trooper had approached a "suspicious vehicle" with two men inside, State Police Superintendent Nathaniel McQueen said. A struggle ensued and the one of the men shot the trooper multiple times before escaping, McQueen added. Police arrested the second man at the scene of the shooting.

MASKED MAN WITH MULTIPLE GUNS ARRESTED OUTSIDE DALLAS POLICE STATION

Photos and video showed extensive damage to the killer's home, with the windows and doors blown out. Police said they used an explosive device to blow open the front door Wednesday night but did not enter.

One witness to the trooper's killing, Clarence Travers, told The News Journal of Wilmington that he heard gunfire while sitting at a red light and saw a police officer fall to the ground. After the initial gunfire, Travers said he saw a man get out of a car and shoot the officer on the ground more than once before getting away.



Police have not corroborated Travers' version of events.

Delaware State police marked armored bulldozer just drove past us to home of gunman, there may be concern home boobyttapped @FOX29philly pic.twitter.com/xpQRMHckZc — Steve Keeley (@KeeleyFox29) April 27, 2017

The trooper was identified late Wednesday as Cpl. Stephen J. Ballard, 32. He had been on the force for more than eight years, according to state police spokesman Sgt. Richard Bratz.



"This is a sad day for our state and for the Delaware State Police family," McQueen said, with Gov. John Carney at his side.

"My heart is with the officer's family and the officers who have served beside him," Carney, a Democrat, said in a statement.

Sarah Adkins, 18, who lives with her parents on the same street where the killer was barricaded, said that shortly after arriving home early Thursday afternoon, she started hearing sporadic gunfire that lasted for about an hour and resumed at other intervals.



"It's been scary," said Adkins, who was told by police to go to her basement and stay there.



Adkins said the man believed to be the suspect went to school with her brothers, and has always seemed friendly, smiling and waving at her when she last saw him a couple of weeks ago.

Click for more from Fox 29.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.