Kim Kardashian Reveals How Paris Robbery Changed Her Life: 'It Was Meant to Happen'
Kim Kardashian Reveals How Paris Robbery Changed Her Life: 'It Was Meant to Happen'
Kim Kardashian appeared on the Thursday, discussing how last year's Paris robbery changed her life. The discussion, which marked her first appearance on Ellen 's show since being robbed at gunpoint last October, also covered her and husband Kanye West 's children, Saint and North. A post shared by Ellen (@theellenshow) on Apr 26, 2017 at 6:15pm PDT "I mean, I know this sounds crazy, but I know that was meant to happen to me," Kardashian told DeGeneres. "I, like, don't want to start crying, but I feel like that was so meant to happen to me. Like, I'm such a different person. It was meant to happen to me. I really feel like things happen in your life to teach you things." Kardashian added that her "whole life has changed" since the incident. "It was probably no secret, you see it on the show when it's being flashy," Kardashian said. "I was definitely materialistic before. Not that there's anything bad with having things and working hard to get those things, and I'm really proud of everyone around me that's successful, but I'm so happy that my kids get me and that this is who I'm raising my kids. Because I just don't care about that stuff anymore, you know? I really don't." Showing off, Kardashian said, just isn't worth it anymore. "I don't care to show off the way that I used to," she said. In another segment, Kardashian and DeGeneres chatted about children and West's upcoming 40th birthday: "I have no idea," Kardashian said of birthday plans. "It's this summer, he's turning 40. He does the most amazing, romantic, over-the-top, crazy, wild things that you would never even imagine for me, so the pressure is so on."

Kim Kardashian appeared on the Ellen DeGeneres Show Thursday, discussing how last year's Paris robbery changed her life. The discussion, which marked her first appearance on Ellen's show since being robbed at gunpoint last October, also covered her and husband Kanye West's children, Saint and North.

A post shared by Ellen (@theellenshow) on Apr 26, 2017 at 6:15pm PDT

"I mean, I know this sounds crazy, but I know that was meant to happen to me," Kardashian told DeGeneres. "I, like, don't want to start crying, but I feel like that was so meant to happen to me. Like, I'm such a different person. It was meant to happen to me. I really feel like things happen in your life to teach you things."

Kardashian added that her "whole life has changed" since the incident. "It was probably no secret, you see it on the show when it's being flashy," Kardashian said. "I was definitely materialistic before. Not that there's anything bad with having things and working hard to get those things, and I'm really proud of everyone around me that's successful, but I'm so happy that my kids get this me and that this is who I'm raising my kids. Because I just don't care about that stuff anymore, you know? I really don't."

Showing off, Kardashian said, just isn't worth it anymore. "I don't care to show off the way that I used to," she said. In another segment, Kardashian and DeGeneres chatted about children and West's upcoming 40th birthday:

"I have no idea," Kardashian said of birthday plans. "It's this summer, he's turning 40. He does the most amazing, romantic, over-the-top, crazy, wild things that you would never even imagine for me, so the pressure is so on."