2017 NFL Mock Draft: Matt Miller's Final 7-Round Predictions
2017 NFL Mock Draft: Matt Miller's Final 7-Round Predictions
2017 NFL Mock Draft: Matt Miller's Final 7-Round Predictions After a 362-day wait, the 2017 NFL draft is finally here. When Commissioner Roger Goodell steps to the podium to announce the picks Thursday night in Philadelphia, we all expect him to call Myles Garrett 's name first. After that, get ready for a wild night. The 2017 class has been billed as very deep at running back, tight end, defensive end, cornerback and safety. We should see those positions flying off the board early and often throughout tonight's 32 first-round picks and the following 221 selections. Where will the first quarterback be drafted? I'm projecting a trade up for North Carolina's Mitchell Trubisky, with two other quarterbacks joining him in the top 15 picks. At running back, this is the deepest class I've ever scouted, and that will be reflected by a high numbers of ball-carriers going in the first two rounds. And while this may be a weak class at the top of the wide receiver rankings, the depth on Day 2 is outstanding. If you're looking for a tight end, this is the year to get one with a loaded group, including two first-round talents and many more throughout Day 2. If you need trench players, it's a small class at offensive line and defensive line in Round 1, but the talent at edge-rusher makes up for that. It's once again a loaded crop of pass-rushers, including presumed No. 1 pick Myles Garrett and top-five pick Solomon Thomas. After that, another five or six edge-rushers could go Thursday night. Looking at the defensive back seven, four linebackers have a chance to go in the first round (Reuben Foster, Haason Reddick, Jarrad Davis, Zach Cunningham). At cornerback, Ohio State's Marshon Lattimore has a shot to be a top-five pick. At the same position, guys such as Quincy Wilson, Adoree' Jackson, Chidobe Awuzie, Marlon Humphrey and Kevin King will also hear their names called early. The safety class is amazing. Jamal Adams and Malik Hooker will come off the board really early with more safeties littered throughout the second and third rounds. This mock draft is based on months of conversations with scouts, coaches, agents, players and general managers and is my look at what I'm hearing from those sources.  1. Cleveland Browns This is a no-brainer. The Cleveland Browns can like Mitchell Trubisky all they want, but the right pick will be Myles Garrett. And that is the pick I'm hearing will happen. The Browns need a quarterback, but with another first-rounder at No. 12 overall, the team can still address that position. Another option: Wait until next year if it doesn't love any of the quarterbacks in this class. Garrett is a rare talent and person. He'll be the first step in building a fierce defense in Cleveland. 2. San Francisco 49ers 3. Chicago Bears Thomas would be a plug-and-play 5-technique defensive end in the Bears' 3-4 scheme and is the perfect complement to last year's first-rounder, Leonard Floyd. By pairing them together in defensive coordinator Vic Fangio's scheme, you could have a throwback to the way he used Justin Smith and Aldon Smith in San Francisco. I know there were Twitter rumors connecting the Bears to a quarterback here, but I can't see that pick happening. 4. Jacksonville Jaguars 5. Tennessee (from Los Angeles Rams) 6. Cleveland Browns (from New York Jets) In the past, I've avoided projecting trades in the first round, as it robs fans of reality. This year, though, with so much chatter from scouts and general managers about the Browns wanting to move up and the Jets wanting to move back, it made sense to include this trade where New York gives Cleveland its No. 6 overall pick and receives Nos. 12 and 52 as well as a 2018 second-rounder in return. At No. 6, the Browns get the quarterback of the future in Mitchell Trubisky. He's an ideal fit for head coach Hue Jackson's offense and will appease ownership that seems desperate to get a passer on the roster fans can believe in long term. 7. Los Angeles Chargers 8. Carolina Panthers 9. Cincinnati Bengals 10. Buffalo Bills With Reddick off the board, I'm going with Watson. He's a proven leader and winner, and he has the athleticism to run the Bills offense. He might not be ready Day 1 to take over for Taylor, but he's an upside player who, in the right scheme, can be a standout NFL quarterback.  11. New Orleans Saints 12. New York Jets (from Browns) 13. Arizona Cardinals 14. Philadelphia Eagles (from Vikings) 15. Indianapolis Colts 16. Baltimore Ravens 17. Washington 18. Tennessee Titans 19. Tampa Bay Buccaneers 20. Denver Broncos 21. Detroit Lions 22. Miami Dolphins 23. New York Giants 24. Oakland Raiders 25. Houston Texans The Houston Texans have a gigantic need at quarterback, but in speaking to coaching sources, it seems like they don't value Notre Dame's DeShone Kizer or California's Davis Webb here. Cornerback is also a need, but the depth at that position is strong enough to get one in Round 2. he position you can't get in Round 2. Garett Bolles has his challenges due to his age (24) and off-field issues, but he's field-ready as a tackle and could come in and play right away on the left and right side. Bolles might not have the upside of a Cam Robinson, but he can be a long-term starter in the NFL. 26. Seattle Seahawks 27. Kansas City Chiefs  28. Dallas Cowboys 29. Green Bay Packers 30. Pittsburgh Steelers McKinley will go to Pittsburgh and immediately be an upgrade opposite Bud Dupree. He's quicker, stronger and has a much more complete pass-rushing game than anyone the Steelers have lined up in that spot (sorry, Jarvis Jones). 31. Atlanta Falcons 32. New Orleans Saints (from Patriots) Round 2 Round 3 Round 4 Round 5 Round 6 Round 7

0 of 38

Steve Helber/Associated Press

After a 362-day wait, the 2017 NFL draft is finally here. When Commissioner Roger Goodell steps to the podium to announce the picks Thursday night in Philadelphia, we all expect him to call Myles Garrett's name first. After that, get ready for a wild night.

The 2017 class has been billed as very deep at running back, tight end, defensive end, cornerback and safety. We should see those positions flying off the board early and often throughout tonight's 32 first-round picks and the following 221 selections.

Where will the first quarterback be drafted? I'm projecting a trade up for North Carolina's Mitchell Trubisky, with two other quarterbacks joining him in the top 15 picks. At running back, this is the deepest class I've ever scouted, and that will be reflected by a high numbers of ball-carriers going in the first two rounds.

And while this may be a weak class at the top of the wide receiver rankings, the depth on Day 2 is outstanding. If you're looking for a tight end, this is the year to get one with a loaded group, including two first-round talents and many more throughout Day 2.

If you need trench players, it's a small class at offensive line and defensive line in Round 1, but the talent at edge-rusher makes up for that. It's once again a loaded crop of pass-rushers, including presumed No. 1 pick Myles Garrett and top-five pick Solomon Thomas. After that, another five or six edge-rushers could go Thursday night.

Looking at the defensive back seven, four linebackers have a chance to go in the first round (Reuben Foster, Haason Reddick, Jarrad Davis, Zach Cunningham).

At cornerback, Ohio State's Marshon Lattimore has a shot to be a top-five pick. At the same position, guys such as Quincy Wilson, Adoree' Jackson, Chidobe Awuzie, Marlon Humphrey and Kevin King will also hear their names called early. The safety class is amazing. Jamal Adams and Malik Hooker will come off the board really early with more safeties littered throughout the second and third rounds.

This mock draft is based on months of conversations with scouts, coaches, agents, players and general managers and is my look at what I'm hearing from those sources.