Johnny Depp surprises Disneyland visitors by appearing in character as Captain Jack Sparrow
Johnny Depp surprises Disneyland visitors by appearing in character as Captain Jack Sparrow
isitors to Disneyland in California on Wednesday evening were treated to a surprise appearance from Johnny Depp. The star appeared on the the theme park's Pirates of the Caribbean ride, dressed as Captian Jack Sparrow, his character from the films based on the Disneyland attraction. Park-goers shared photos and videos of Depp on social media: Johnny Depp Is filming on the pirates ride in Disney land!!!! Crazy!!!!!! pic.twitter.com/Klc1QyEKzR Johnny Depp spent his day at Disneyland surprising guests on Pirates. I could die. pic.twitter.com/rxPm1GdRHu You know those little Disney Myths like...Johnny Depp will dress up as Jack Sparrow and sit in the Pirates of the Caribbean Ride? Well... pic.twitter.com/oAyIIu1e56 JOHNNY DEPP WAS ON PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN WHILE I WAS ON IT AND IM SCREAMING pic.twitter.com/OsVRL8pmn7 I seriously cannot believe I saw Johnny Depp at Disneyland tonight!! Best night ever!! #Disneyland  #JohnnyDepp  #PiratesoftheCaribbean  pic.twitter.com/KeCJDkPjbM Life is complete! Just saw Johnny Depp on Pirates of the Caribbean @Disneyland !! #PiratesoftheCaribbean  pic.twitter.com/33lLTGmHng he fifth Pirates of the Caribbean film, Dead Men Tell No Tales, hits cinemas later this summer. Depp has prior form when it comes to showing up unexpected in character. While filming in London in 2010, staff and pupils at Meridian primary school in Greenwich were reportedly astonished when Captain Jack paid a visit in response to a letter from nine-year-old Beatrice Delap, who wrote a letter saying: "We are a bunch of budding young pirates. Normally we're a right handful but we're having trouble mutinying against the teachers. We'd love it if you could come and help." eatrice later told reporters: "I had the idea to write the letter last week after me and a friend went to see the film set. Yesterday the school called us in for a special assembly at the end of the day. "Then Johnny Depp walked in dressed as Captain Jack. There were gasps and screams. He pulled the letter out of his pocket and said he was going to frame it. Then he called me down and gave me a hug. "He said the pirates were going to take over the school and only eat candy and our teeth would turn black and fall out. But he said we shouldn't mutiny against the teachers because there were some police outside and we might get into trouble. It was the most exciting school day ever."

Beatrice later told reporters: "I had the idea to write the letter last week after me and a friend went to see the film set. Yesterday the school called us in for a special assembly at the end of the day.

"Then Johnny Depp walked in dressed as Captain Jack. There were gasps and screams. He pulled the letter out of his pocket and said he was going to frame it. Then he called me down and gave me a hug.

"He said the pirates were going to take over the school and only eat candy and our teeth would turn black and fall out. But he said we shouldn't mutiny against the teachers because there were some police outside and we might get into trouble. It was the most exciting school day ever."