Doctors, Hospitals Say Latest Trumpcare Version A Bigger Disaster
Doctors, Hospitals Say Latest Trumpcare Version A Bigger Disaster
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Japsen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The latest version of the American Health Care Act, also known as Trumpcare, has providers of medical care mobilizing once again to derail what they say is an even worse version than what U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan wouldn’t bring to a vote last month. Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) talks to reporters during his weekly news conference at the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center April 27, 2017. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) An amendment to the AHCA negotiated by the House Freedom Caucus proposes to reduce costs of individual health policies by allowing states to opt out of certain requirements under the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. States could opt of requiring health plans to provide the so-called “essential health benefits” under the ACA that include everything from hospitalization and mental health coverage to maternity care. Providers of medical care say the so-called MacArthur Amendment to AHCA would cause millions of Americans to lose coverage, several groups including the American Medical Association and the American Hospital Association, and AARP, the giant lobby for millions of senior citizens. said Thursday. “The changes included put consumer protections at greater risk by allowing states to waive the essential health benefit standards, which could leave patients without access to critical health services and increase out-of-pocket spending. This could allow plans to set premium prices based on individual risk for some consumers, which could significantly raise costs for those with preexisting conditions.” Ryan’s earlier version of the American Health Care Act would cause 24 million Americans to join the ranks of the uninsured by 2026, including 14 million by next year, and most of them are covered by Medicaid for poor Americans, the Congressional Budget Office reported earlier this week. Medical providers complain the newer version might add to the uninsured, but nobody knows for sure because it has yet to be “scored.” “We are deeply concerned that the said in a Thursday letter to Speaker Ryan . “The MacArthur Amendment would allow states to apply for waivers from critical consumer protections provided in the ACA, including the age rating ratio of 3 to 1, the requirements that health insurers must cover certain essential health benefits and the ban on health status underwriting. The current ban on health status underwriting protects individuals from being discriminated against by virtue of their medical conditions.” Medical care providers said the new version of Trumpcare doesn’t strengthen the individual health insurance market by improving coverage and offering adequate benefits. “The recent amendments to the bill, intended to make it more palatable to those who did not support it initially, are even CEO. “Changing the current rules to undermine essential benefits requirements and protections for people with preexisting conditions, as well as allowing insurers to set annual and lifetime caps on the care they cover, would seriously undermine health security and leave many individuals with substandard protection. Even the proposed state high-risk pools would be an inadequate and underfunded solution to a problem that need not exist in the first place.” Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

The latest version of the American Health Care Act, also known as Trumpcare, has providers of medical care mobilizing once again to derail what they say is an even worse version than what U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan wouldn’t bring to a vote last month.

An amendment to the AHCA negotiated by the House Freedom Caucus proposes to reduce costs of individual health policies by allowing states to opt out of certain requirements under the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. States could opt of requiring health plans to provide the so-called “essential health benefits” under the ACA that include everything from hospitalization and mental health coverage to maternity care.

Providers of medical care say the so-called MacArthur Amendment to AHCA would cause millions of Americans to lose coverage, several groups including the American Medical Association and the American Hospital Association, and AARP, the giant lobby for millions of senior citizens.

“The amendment proposed this week would dramatically worsen the bill,” American Hospital Association CEO Rick Pollack said Thursday. “The changes included put consumer protections at greater risk by allowing states to waive the essential health benefit standards, which could leave patients without access to critical health services and increase out-of-pocket spending. This could allow plans to set premium prices based on individual risk for some consumers, which could significantly raise costs for those with preexisting conditions.”

Ryan’s earlier version of the American Health Care Act would cause 24 million Americans to join the ranks of the uninsured by 2026, including 14 million by next year, and most of them are covered by Medicaid for poor Americans, the Congressional Budget Office reported earlier this week. Medical providers complain the newer version might add to the uninsured, but nobody knows for sure because it has yet to be “scored.”

“We are deeply concerned that the AHCA would result in millions of Americans losing their current health insurance coverage,” AMA CEO Dr. James Madara said in a Thursday letter to Speaker Ryan. “The MacArthur Amendment would allow states to apply for waivers from critical consumer protections provided in the ACA, including the age rating ratio of 3 to 1, the requirements that health insurers must cover certain essential health benefits and the ban on health status underwriting. The current ban on health status underwriting protects individuals from being discriminated against by virtue of their medical conditions.”

Medical care providers said the new version of Trumpcare doesn’t strengthen the individual health insurance market by improving coverage and offering adequate benefits.

“The recent amendments to the bill, intended to make it more palatable to those who did not support it initially, are even more disastrous for people who have just gotten healthcare,” said Sister Carol Keehan, Catholic Health Association CEO. “Changing the current rules to undermine essential benefits requirements and protections for people with preexisting conditions, as well as allowing insurers to set annual and lifetime caps on the care they cover, would seriously undermine health security and leave many individuals with substandard protection. Even the proposed state high-risk pools would be an inadequate and underfunded solution to a problem that need not exist in the first place.”