The XX Factor: Inside The Fight To Reinvent Financial Advice For Women
The XX Factor: Inside The Fight To Reinvent Financial Advice For Women
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Samantha Sharf       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photograph by Jamel Toppin Facing down the bull: Wall Street veteran Sallie Krawcheck has reinvented herself as a champion for women and their money. Sign up with an asset allocation service or hire a new financial advisor and you're likely to be presented with a questionnaire asking how much risk you're willing to take. Not so at Ellevest, a new "robo" investing site designed explicitly for women. "No one really knows their risk tolerance,'' CEO and cofounder Sallie Krawcheck declares. Yet men, she says, will answer that they're ready to take average or above-average risk, while "women will stop, say they are going to research it, then you never hear from them again. It really stops them cold." That observation--based on Ellevest's own research and supported by academic findings that women are less willing to guess about consequential matters--wouldn't seem by itself to warrant a separate investing platform just for women. But Krawcheck and her big-name backers are betting that such behavioral insights, combined with women's longer lives, lower earnings and distaste for Wall Street, will create a demand for the service, which opened to the general public in November. At Ellevest, for a fee of 0.5% of assets a year, a woman gets savings plans and individualized portfolios of low-cost ETFs matched to distinct goals such as retirement, a home purchase or having a child. While that's half what a real human advisor would charge, it's twice the typical fee at Betterment, the largest independent robo-advisor. A second robo designed for women, WorthFM, opened to the public in February. It also charges 0.5%. Krawcheck, 52, is a key part of Ellevest's branding. For more than a decade, she held a series of high-profile Wall Street jobs, running Sanford C. Bernstein, Smith Barney, Citi Wealth Management and finally Merrill Lynch, with its mostly male army of 15,000 brokers. After being squeezed out of Merrill in a 2011 reorganization by parent Bank of America, she reinvented herself as a champion for women. In 2013, she purchased 85 Broads, which runs networking programs for business and professional women, renaming it Ellevate Network. The separate Ellevest site hits the hot buttons, promoting itself with a "Money is power" slogan and a #FinancialFeminist hashtag. Near its Manhattan headquarters, it bought phone booth ads featuring a silhouette of President Donald Trump and the come on: "Women of New York: Cover your a$$." While such politically tinged marketing sets Ellevest apart, concern over connecting with female investors is widespread. Understandably so. Just 16% of the nation's 311,000 financial advisors are female. Yet women controlled 35% of North America's investable wealth in 2015, Boston Consulting Group estimates, and are steadily increasing their share as Millennial females earn more college and graduate degrees than males and as older women outlive their mates. Cerulli Associates recently warned its financial-industry clients about the risk that "unengaged female spouses" will move their money after they're widowed. One woman, Cerulli noted, ditched a financial advisor who had addressed all correspondence exclusively to her late husband. "You have all these articles coming out telling men how to talk to their female clients. That makes me crazy. Like females are some delicate flowers who can't handle stuff,'' says Deborah Frazier, a fee-only advisor in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, who manages $100 million for 80 clients, half of them widowed, divorced and single women. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Photograph by Jamel Toppin

Sign up with an asset allocation service or hire a new financial advisor and you're likely to be presented with a questionnaire asking how much risk you're willing to take. Not so at Ellevest, a new "robo" investing site designed explicitly for women.

"No one really knows their risk tolerance,'' CEO and cofounder Sallie Krawcheck declares. Yet men, she says, will answer that they're ready to take average or above-average risk, while "women will stop, say they are going to research it, then you never hear from them again. It really stops them cold."

That observation--based on Ellevest's own research and supported by academic findings that women are less willing to guess about consequential matters--wouldn't seem by itself to warrant a separate investing platform just for women. But Krawcheck and her big-name backers are betting that such behavioral insights, combined with women's longer lives, lower earnings and distaste for Wall Street, will create a demand for the service, which opened to the general public in November.

At Ellevest, for a fee of 0.5% of assets a year, a woman gets savings plans and individualized portfolios of low-cost ETFs matched to distinct goals such as retirement, a home purchase or having a child. While that's half what a real human advisor would charge, it's twice the typical fee at Betterment, the largest independent robo-advisor. A second robo designed for women, WorthFM, opened to the public in February. It also charges 0.5%.

Krawcheck, 52, is a key part of Ellevest's branding. For more than a decade, she held a series of high-profile Wall Street jobs, running Sanford C. Bernstein, Smith Barney, Citi Wealth Management and finally Merrill Lynch, with its mostly male army of 15,000 brokers. After being squeezed out of Merrill in a 2011 reorganization by parent Bank of America, she reinvented herself as a champion for women. In 2013, she purchased 85 Broads, which runs networking programs for business and professional women, renaming it Ellevate Network.

The separate Ellevest site hits the hot buttons, promoting itself with a "Money is power" slogan and a #FinancialFeminist hashtag. Near its Manhattan headquarters, it bought phone booth ads featuring a silhouette of President Donald Trump and the come on: "Women of New York: Cover your a$$."

While such politically tinged marketing sets Ellevest apart, concern over connecting with female investors is widespread. Understandably so. Just 16% of the nation's 311,000 financial advisors are female. Yet women controlled 35% of North America's investable wealth in 2015, Boston Consulting Group estimates, and are steadily increasing their share as Millennial females earn more college and graduate degrees than males and as older women outlive their mates. Cerulli Associates recently warned its financial-industry clients about the risk that "unengaged female spouses" will move their money after they're widowed. One woman, Cerulli noted, ditched a financial advisor who had addressed all correspondence exclusively to her late husband.

"You have all these articles coming out telling men how to talk to their female clients. That makes me crazy. Like females are some delicate flowers who can't handle stuff,'' says Deborah Frazier, a fee-only advisor in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, who manages $100 million for 80 clients, half of them widowed, divorced and single women.