James Earl Jones to get Tony Award for lifetime achievement
James Earl Jones to get Tony Award for lifetime achievement
Shares                Two-time Tony Award winner James Earl Jones will soon get a third — for lifetime achievement. The Tony Awards Administration Committee said Thursday that Jones will receive the Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Theatre on June 11 at the Tony Awards. Jones, the voice of Darth Vader and Mufasa from Disney's " The Lion King ," has won Tonys for "The Great White Hope" and "Fences." His Broadway credits also include "On Golden Pond," ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," ''Driving Miss Daisy," ''The Best Man" and "The Gin Game." Shares                  James Earl Jones to get Tony Award for lifetime achievement   Why Goldie Hawn took a 15-year break from movies   Caitlyn Jenner felt like a 'punching bag' in marriage to Kris Jenner   Kim Kardashian West says robbery was 'meant to happen to me'   Kourtney Kardashian celebrates birthday with epic vacation in Mexico   John Legend on taking 1-year-old daughter on tour   Prince Jackson explains his personal connection to foster youths   Dale Earnhardt Jr. opens up about his retirement: 'I don’t want to let anybody down'   Russell Simmons on meditation, what his relationship with Trump is like today   Radio DJ Charlamagne Tha God explains what 'black privilege' means to him   United reaches 'amicable' settlement with doctor dragged off flight   Trump plans to renegotiate NAFTA, but may scrap it if 'fair deal' not reached   GOP tries to buy more time for funding bill negotiations   2 US service members killed in Afghanistan amid ISIS fight   Mom and 6 sons cut their hair, donate it to kids in need   SeaWorld welcomes unexpected sea lion pup amid care for sick mother   600-year-old tree that witnessed history taken down   Reebok trolls $425 'muddy' jeans with fake $425 sweaty T-shirt   Neanderthals in California? Maybe so, provocative study says   High school student athlete surprised with full college scholarship   Rapping maid of honor channels 'Real Slim Shady' in wedding speech   Baby's newborn photos celebrate firefighter mom, police officer dad   97-year-old fulfills lifelong firefighting dream on his birthday

Two-time Tony Award winner James Earl Jones will soon get a third — for lifetime achievement.

The Tony Awards Administration Committee said Thursday that Jones will receive the Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Theatre on June 11 at the Tony Awards.

Jones, the voice of Darth Vader and Mufasa from Disney's "The Lion King," has won Tonys for "The Great White Hope" and "Fences." His Broadway credits also include "On Golden Pond," ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," ''Driving Miss Daisy," ''The Best Man" and "The Gin Game."