Anita Sarkeesian ends web series that rocked the world of gaming
Anita Sarkeesian ends web series that rocked the world of gaming
Before the bomb threats, GamerGate , or the violent emails and tweets, Anita Sarkeesian had a provocative idea. The feminist cultural critic, who'd taken on the likes of LEGO and -era Joss Whedon in her low-key web series, decided to go after misogyny in video games. Her life would never be the same. SEE ALSO: The tricky art of marketing women's empowerment in the era of Trump Sarkeesian's biting criticism put gamers on the defensive — and many of them resented her blunt observations about chauvinism in the games they cherished. Though she wasn't the first or only person to openly confront the problem, her message and medium ignited controversy. After four years, 21 videos, and countless threats to Sarkeesian's safety, , comes to an end Thursday. While is over, Sarkeesian won't step back from her role as one of the internet's most incisive cultural critics. Instead, she's about to take on the most ambitious project of her life: A new show on current events and pop culture, launching in May, that will regularly deconstruct troubling stereotypes and narratives about race and gender. Don't be surprised if the episodes routinely circle back to the ideas that underpin Donald Trump's worst rhetoric and policies, like the Muslim ban. "It’s never been about video games," she says. "It’s always about social justice. It’s always been using feminism to talk about these things." The FREQ Show will tackle "forms of oppression" from an unapologetic intersectional feminist perspective. One episode will look at how transphobia in the media is linked to the "conservative crusade" against transgender rights, including bathroom access. Another episode will focus on the representation of Arabs and Muslims in pop culture history and how that relates to today's policies. Basically, she's not shying away from the titanic cultural shift amplified by Trump and his supporters. "It’s never been about video games. It’s always about social justice." You can thank John Oliver, in part, for Sarkeesian's desire to try her hand at dissecting current events. After attending a taping of "Last Week Tonight" last year, she walked away feeling energized and inspired. She feels similarly about Samantha Bee's laughs-driven analysis of the daily political madness. But don't expect Sarkeesian's show to look or feel the same as Bee's or Oliver's, whose sophisticated production values are brought to you by deep cable channel coffers. Sarkeesian, by contrast, still works on a shoestring budget. Since she doesn't allow ads to accompany her videos, Sarkeesian relies on crowdfunding and donations to her nonprofit organization Feminist Frequency. She'll launch a fundraising campaign in tandem with the debut of The FREQ Show. Before then, though, she has to say goodbye to . It all started in 2012 with a wildly successful Kickstarter campaign that promised five videos. Twenty videos later, the final segment is an 11-minute treatise on the "lady sidekick." Her big takeaway for gamers and developers is to think critically about female characters who are reduced to a tool or a "sexualized slot machine" in service of the male hero. SEE ALSO: Anita Sarkeesian and the defiant women who shaped history It's typical fare for Sarkeesian but she appears more comfortable than in earlier episodes, when she was learning to cope with the horror of online harassment. The onslaught of rape and death threats and casual bullying from strangers made Sarkeesian feel like she had to become unassailable. Any hint of vulnerability or any mistake could be used against her to painful effect. She's slowly coaxed herself out of that defensive position in recent months, and knows the end of will bring a complicated mix of emotions. "The harassment hasn’t stopped, and it’s not going to stop. The fact that we exist brings harassment." "Hitting publish on that video, I don’t know how I’m going to react," she says. "It’s not like I’m going to relax after this. The harassment hasn’t stopped, and it’s not going to stop. The fact that we exist brings harassment." And yet, she knows made a positive difference in the world of gaming. While others were voicing concerns similar to hers, and had been for some time, the straightforward style and accessibility of her video criticism made a sudden, noticeable impact. "I probably would have called myself feminist, but was lacking the perspective," says the indie game developer Matt Thorson.  "Seeing that series come out and seeing the backlash really illuminated a lot of that for me." While Thorson didn't agree with every example of sexism Sarkeesian pointed out in her videos, the overarching points about gender roles began to resonate. Thorson felt so grateful for Sarkeesian's work that he paid homage to her in his popular TowerFall video game series by designing a character with her in mind. He also wanted to send a clear message to TowerFall fans who weren't sure how to feel about GamerGate , an online campaign that  trafficked in sexism while drawing cover by insisting it was about gaming journalism ethics. By honoring Sarkeesian, who was loathed by many Gamergate participants, he hoped to draw a line about values in the gaming industry. "TowerFall is about bringing people together, so it’s vitally important that the cast of playable characters makes everyone feel invited to join in," Thorson wrote in a blog post announcing the character. "Simply put, this wouldn’t have occurred to me if not for Anita, and feedback from players has reinforced how important it really is." Thorson says he sees her influence on younger developers, who now talk about gender roles in video games more openly, and with relative ease. "I’m not just making this because I have nothing else to do. I want to contribute to a larger conversation." Dawn Hall, an associate professor at Western Kentucky University, notices the same effect in her young students after they watch and discuss . Sarkeesian's approach is effective, says Hall, because she uses a combination of academic criticism and an accessible style to talk critically about gender, which gives them a "language" to have their own conversations about the subject. The message can be difficult for the hard-core gamers in the room to hear, but it often leads to the proverbial light bulb switching on. "I think [ ] is significant in that it empowers students to speak up and examine problematic images they encounter every day," says Hall. That pretty much sums up Sarkeesian's hopes for her next series, too. If she can find the right niche for the show and for Feminist Frequency, among all the activist work already underway, it could help give people the language to talk about the current political and social climate in their own communities. This feels like an urgent cause to Sarkeesian in the Trump era. "I’m not just making this because I have nothing else to do," she says. "I want to contribute to a larger conversation." As the cultural and political implications of Trump's agenda become more dire by the day, Sarkeesian's timing couldn't be better. WATCH: How to unlock YouTube's secret Dark Mode

Before the bomb threats, GamerGate, or the violent emails and tweets, Anita Sarkeesian had a provocative idea.

The feminist cultural critic, who'd taken on the likes of LEGO and Dollhouse-era Joss Whedon in her low-key Feminist Frequency web series, decided to go after misogyny in video games. Her life would never be the same.

Sarkeesian's biting criticism put gamers on the defensive — and many of them resented her blunt observations about chauvinism in the games they cherished. Though she wasn't the first or only person to openly confront the problem, her message and medium ignited controversy. After four years, 21 videos, and countless threats to Sarkeesian's safety, Tropes vs. Women in Video Games, comes to an end Thursday.

While Tropes is over, Sarkeesian won't step back from her role as one of the internet's most incisive cultural critics. Instead, she's about to take on the most ambitious project of her life: A new show on current events and pop culture, launching in May, that will regularly deconstruct troubling stereotypes and narratives about race and gender. Don't be surprised if the episodes routinely circle back to the ideas that underpin Donald Trump's worst rhetoric and policies, like the Muslim ban.

"It’s never been about video games," she says. "It’s always about social justice. It’s always been using feminism to talk about these things."

The FREQ Show will tackle "forms of oppression" from an unapologetic intersectional feminist perspective. One episode will look at how transphobia in the media is linked to the "conservative crusade" against transgender rights, including bathroom access. Another episode will focus on the representation of Arabs and Muslims in pop culture history and how that relates to today's policies. Basically, she's not shying away from the titanic cultural shift amplified by Trump and his supporters.

"It’s never been about video games. It’s always about social justice."

You can thank John Oliver, in part, for Sarkeesian's desire to try her hand at dissecting current events. After attending a taping of "Last Week Tonight" last year, she walked away feeling energized and inspired. She feels similarly about Samantha Bee's laughs-driven analysis of the daily political madness.

But don't expect Sarkeesian's show to look or feel the same as Bee's or Oliver's, whose sophisticated production values are brought to you by deep cable channel coffers. Sarkeesian, by contrast, still works on a shoestring budget. Since she doesn't allow ads to accompany her videos, Sarkeesian relies on crowdfunding and donations to her nonprofit organization Feminist Frequency. She'll launch a fundraising campaign in tandem with the debut of The FREQ Show.

Before then, though, she has to say goodbye to Tropes. It all started in 2012 with a wildly successful Kickstarter campaign that promised five videos. Twenty videos later, the final segment is an 11-minute treatise on the "lady sidekick." Her big takeaway for gamers and developers is to think critically about female characters who are reduced to a tool or a "sexualized slot machine" in service of the male hero.

SEE ALSO: Anita Sarkeesian and the defiant women who shaped history

It's typical fare for Sarkeesian but she appears more comfortable than in earlier episodes, when she was learning to cope with the horror of online harassment. The onslaught of rape and death threats and casual bullying from strangers made Sarkeesian feel like she had to become unassailable. Any hint of vulnerability or any mistake could be used against her to painful effect. She's slowly coaxed herself out of that defensive position in recent months, and knows the end of Tropes will bring a complicated mix of emotions.

"The harassment hasn’t stopped, and it’s not going to stop. The fact that we exist brings harassment."

"Hitting publish on that video, I don’t know how I’m going to react," she says. "It’s not like I’m going to relax after this. The harassment hasn’t stopped, and it’s not going to stop. The fact that we exist brings harassment."

And yet, she knows Tropes made a positive difference in the world of gaming. While others were voicing concerns similar to hers, and had been for some time, the straightforward style and accessibility of her video criticism made a sudden, noticeable impact.

"I probably would have called myself feminist, but was lacking the perspective," says the indie game developer Matt Thorson. "Seeing that series come out and seeing the backlash really illuminated a lot of that for me."

While Thorson didn't agree with every example of sexism Sarkeesian pointed out in her videos, the overarching points about gender roles began to resonate.

Thorson felt so grateful for Sarkeesian's work that he paid homage to her in his popular TowerFall video game series by designing a character with her in mind. He also wanted to send a clear message to TowerFall fans who weren't sure how to feel about GamerGate, an online campaign that trafficked in sexism while drawing cover by insisting it was about gaming journalism ethics. By honoring Sarkeesian, who was loathed by many Gamergate participants, he hoped to draw a line about values in the gaming industry.

"TowerFall is about bringing people together, so it’s vitally important that the cast of playable characters makes everyone feel invited to join in," Thorson wrote in a blog post announcing the character. "Simply put, this wouldn’t have occurred to me if not for Anita, and feedback from players has reinforced how important it really is."

Thorson says he sees her influence on younger developers, who now talk about gender roles in video games more openly, and with relative ease.

"I’m not just making this because I have nothing else to do. I want to contribute to a larger conversation."

Dawn Hall, an associate professor at Western Kentucky University, notices the same effect in her young students after they watch and discuss Tropes. Sarkeesian's approach is effective, says Hall, because she uses a combination of academic criticism and an accessible style to talk critically about gender, which gives them a "language" to have their own conversations about the subject. The message can be difficult for the hard-core gamers in the room to hear, but it often leads to the proverbial light bulb switching on.

"I think [Tropes] is significant in that it empowers students to speak up and examine problematic images they encounter every day," says Hall.

That pretty much sums up Sarkeesian's hopes for her next series, too. If she can find the right niche for the show and for Feminist Frequency, among all the activist work already underway, it could help give people the language to talk about the current political and social climate in their own communities. This feels like an urgent cause to Sarkeesian in the Trump era.

"I’m not just making this because I have nothing else to do," she says. "I want to contribute to a larger conversation."

As the cultural and political implications of Trump's agenda become more dire by the day, Sarkeesian's timing couldn't be better.