Emilia Clarke is more scared to talk 'Han Solo' than 'Game of Thrones'
Emilia Clarke is more scared to talk 'Han Solo' than 'Game of Thrones'
If actress Emilia Clarke is only taking on projects shrouded in secrecy, she certainly knows how to pick 'em. The 30-year-old actress will soon return to our TVs as aspiring queen Daenerys Targaryen, but she's also up to her eyes in unshareable secrets about the untitled Han Solo project. SEE ALSO: 'Game of Thrones’ fans need to enroll in this college course right now “No one knows anything. No one is told anything. It’s all crazy,” Clarke told about final season, due in 2018. “It’s a secret from the cast. We generally can’t be trusted. They pretty much have told us so.” Okay, so how about some Han Solo teasers? Clarke is part of a cast that includes Alden Ehrenreich, Donald Glover, Woody Harrelson, Phoebe Waller-Bridge, and more. Harrelson has been happy to oblige fans with a few tidbits , whether or not Disney likes it. “I genuinely can’t tell you anything other than Alden is magnificent, and it’s a delight to do something on that level with really cool actors and nice people," Clarke went on to say. "But it’s even scarier talking about that than .” WATCH: Watch Kristin Chenoweth slay the 'GoT' theme song with her voice of Valyrian steel

If actress Emilia Clarke is only taking on projects shrouded in secrecy, she certainly knows how to pick 'em. The 30-year-old actress will soon return to our TVs as aspiring queen Daenerys Targaryen, but she's also up to her eyes in unshareable secrets about the untitled Han Solo project.

“No one knows anything. No one is told anything. It’s all crazy,” Clarke told The Mercury News about Game of Thrones' final season, due in 2018. “It’s a secret from the cast. We generally can’t be trusted. They pretty much have told us so.”

Okay, so how about some Han Solo teasers? Clarke is part of a cast that includes Alden Ehrenreich, Donald Glover, Woody Harrelson, Phoebe Waller-Bridge, and more. Harrelson has been happy to oblige fans with a few tidbits, whether or not Disney likes it.

“I genuinely can’t tell you anything other than Alden is magnificent, and it’s a delight to do something on that level with really cool actors and nice people," Clarke went on to say. "But it’s even scarier talking about that than Game of Thrones.”