Redskins 2017 NFL draft discussion and analysis

Draft day is here at last. The Redskins hold the 17th pick in Round 1, which means they should be making their selection sometime between 10:30 and 11 p.m. tonight. You can spend the time leading up to that pick right here, offering your comments and opinions on what the Redskins should do and catching up with all of our Redskins draft coverage. Just before the Redskins’ pick, be sure to tune into Facebook Live as Master Tesfatsion breaks down the draft so far, potential Redskins targets and what to make of the Skins’ selection. Latest draft news, rumors and analysis  Top 50 prospects | Most-likely picks to be traded  Draft history: Who are the best/worst-drafting teams  Top needs for every AFC team | NFC  The Redskins seven-round mock draft: Version 1.0 | 2.0 The recommended reading is below. Refresh this page after the pick tonight for instant analysis from Mike Jones and Mark Bullock. And of course, drop your thoughts in the comment section below. Washington enters the draft without a GM and with long-term questions at the quarterback position. How will that affect the first round and beyond? ( Read More ) Hashing out Washington’s top priorities as draft day begins. ( Read More ) The team has maintained from the outset of the offseason that it wants Cousins long term. And yet speculation of a trade has persisted from the media. Here’s why. ( Read More ) See how the first round projects from top to bottom, complete with trades. ( Read More ) A look at how the Skins’ class could shape up if they favor a defensive player in Round 1. ( Read More ) Jay Gruden has admitted that he’s intrigued by some of the draft’s top RBs. What if they go that route in Round 1? ( Read More ) With Kirk Cousins’ future unclear, should Washington spend a pick on a quarterback? ( Read More )



Who will the Redskins select in Round 1? (Jonathan Newton/The Washington Post)

Draft day is here at last. The Redskins hold the 17th pick in Round 1, which means they should be making their selection sometime between 10:30 and 11 p.m. tonight. You can spend the time leading up to that pick right here, offering your comments and opinions on what the Redskins should do and catching up with all of our Redskins draft coverage.

Just before the Redskins’ pick, be sure to tune into Facebook Live as Master Tesfatsion breaks down the draft so far, potential Redskins targets and what to make of the Skins’ selection.

More from The Post on the NFL draft

Latest draft news, rumors and analysis

Top 50 prospects | Most-likely picks to be traded

Draft history: Who are the best/worst-drafting teams

Top needs for every AFC team | NFC

The Redskins seven-round mock draft: Version 1.0 | 2.0

The recommended reading is below. Refresh this page after the pick tonight for instant analysis from Mike Jones and Mark Bullock. And of course, drop your thoughts in the comment section below.

The next question in a wild offseason: Who will be the Redskins’ top pick?

Washington enters the draft without a GM and with long-term questions at the quarterback position. How will that affect the first round and beyond? (Read More)

What the Redskins could and should do at the 2017 draft

Hashing out Washington’s top priorities as draft day begins. (Read More)

Trade speculation just won’t stop around Kirk Cousins

The team has maintained from the outset of the offseason that it wants Cousins long term. And yet speculation of a trade has persisted from the media. Here’s why. (Read More)

The final Post mock draft

See how the first round projects from top to bottom, complete with trades. (Read More)

The Redskins’ seven-round Mock Draft: Defense-first version

A look at how the Skins’ class could shape up if they favor a defensive player in Round 1. (Read More)

The Redskins’ seven-round Mock Draft: Offense-first version

Jay Gruden has admitted that he’s intrigued by some of the draft’s top RBs. What if they go that route in Round 1? (Read More)

Uncertainty at QB creates more needs for Redskins in the draft

With Kirk Cousins’ future unclear, should Washington spend a pick on a quarterback? (Read More)