Coke is adding FIBRE to its drinks
Coke is adding FIBRE to its drinks


Coke's flagship cola is being sold as a health drink of sorts in Japan, with a version that promises to deliver fibre.

'Coca-Cola Plus' has shipped in white bottles and is designed to go alongside meals.

The no-calorie beverage contains five grams (0.2oz) of indigestible dextrin – a source of dietary fibre – per 470ml bottle.

Scroll down for video

Coke's flagship cola is being sold as a health drink of sorts in Japan, with a version that promises to deliver fibre. 'Coca-Cola Plus' has shipped in white bottles and is designed to go alongside meals

WHY COKE IS ADDING FIBRE TO ITS DRINKS Drinks promising health benefits are common in Japan. The country is home to the world's largest ageing population, and older consumers are driving growth of it's healthy beverage market. This market is led by teas, followed by cola soft drinks. 'Being an ageing society has made it a unique market where consumers are extremely health-conscious and seek functionality,' said Dr David Machiels, product development director at Coca-Cola Asia Pacific.

'Drinking one Coca-Cola Plus per day with food will help suppress fat absorption and help moderate the levels of triglycerides in the blood after eating,' the company said in a press release.

It claims that the drink is a result of 'more than a decade of research and development'.

The launch of Coca-Cola Plus was noted by the company in Japan during a call Tuesday, as well as Canada Dry Plus that has fibre.

Coca-Cola Plus hit shelves in March, the company said, and is being marketed to the 40-and-over crowd.

The company said this group is driving the growth of the country's 'food of specified health use' (FOSHU) products.

'Coca-Cola Plus is a sugar-free and calorie-free beverage with FOSHU functions,' said Dr David Machiels, product development director at Coca-Cola Asia Pacific.

'We hope people will drink it with meals.'

Japan is home to the world's largest ageing population.

Drinks promising health benefits are common in Japan. Japan has an aging society, creating a unique market in which consumers are extremely health-conscious and seek functionality, said Dr David Machiels (pictured), product development director at Coca-Cola Asia Pacific

Older consumers are driving growth of the country's FOSHU beverage market, led by teas, followed by cola soft drinks.

'Being an ageing society has made it a unique market where consumers are extremely health-conscious and seek functionality,' Dr Machiels said.

Drinks promising health benefits are common in Japan.

Coke is the top beverage maker in the country, but not necessarily because of its namesake drinks.

Instead, the bigger brands include a canned coffee, orange-flavoured water and green tea.

Coke also introduced a tea with fibre in Japan in 2014.