2 officers shot on French island of Reunion; bomb materials found at Islamist suspect's home
2 officers shot on French island of Reunion; bomb materials found at Islamist suspect's home
TERRORISM 2 officers shot on French island of Reunion; bomb materials found at Islamist suspect's home A man suspected of links to radical Islam and of glorifying terrorism shot two police officers on the French island of Reunion during an arrest Thursday -- and police found bomb-making materials at his home, officials said. Officers detained the unnamed suspect and his mother. Police also found weapons in his apartment in the town of Saint Benoit de la Reunion, according to the Interior Ministry. The two officers, from a special national police intervention force, were hospitalized but were expected to survive. The man was wanted for "glorifying terrorism," the ministry said in a statement, without elaborating. The shooting came just a week after a police officer was killed in Paris in an attack claimed by the Islamic State terror group. Antiterrorism prosecutors have taken over the investigation because the man was suspected of links to radical Islam, Paris prosecutor's office spokeswoman Agnes Thibault-Lecuivre told The Associated Press. The suspect, in his 20s, opened fire with a shotgun as a special police squad arrived to raid his home, the BBC reported . The man appeared to be acting alone, according to a local Reunion official who was not authorized to be publicly named. France is under a state of emergency after multiple Islamic extremist attacks. Extremists have notably targeted French security forces, seen as representing the reviled state. One of France's biggest overseas territories and located east of Madagascar, Reunion is an ethnically diverse island with a mix of religions at the crossroads of historic sea trading routes between Africa, Asia and the Arab world. French presidential candidates Emmanuel Macron, an independent centrist, and far-right leader Marine Le Pen have both visited the island during the campaign. They meet in a tense runoff election May 7.

A man suspected of links to radical Islam and of glorifying terrorism shot two police officers on the French island of Reunion during an arrest Thursday -- and police found bomb-making materials at his home, officials said.

Officers detained the unnamed suspect and his mother. Police also found weapons in his apartment in the town of Saint Benoit de la Reunion, according to the Interior Ministry.

The two officers, from a special national police intervention force, were hospitalized but were expected to survive. The man was wanted for "glorifying terrorism," the ministry said in a statement, without elaborating. The shooting came just a week after a police officer was killed in Paris in an attack claimed by the Islamic State terror group.

Antiterrorism prosecutors have taken over the investigation because the man was suspected of links to radical Islam, Paris prosecutor's office spokeswoman Agnes Thibault-Lecuivre told The Associated Press. The suspect, in his 20s, opened fire with a shotgun as a special police squad arrived to raid his home, the BBC reported.

The man appeared to be acting alone, according to a local Reunion official who was not authorized to be publicly named.

France is under a state of emergency after multiple Islamic extremist attacks. Extremists have notably targeted French security forces, seen as representing the reviled state.

One of France's biggest overseas territories and located east of Madagascar, Reunion is an ethnically diverse island with a mix of religions at the crossroads of historic sea trading routes between Africa, Asia and the Arab world.

French presidential candidates Emmanuel Macron, an independent centrist, and far-right leader Marine Le Pen have both visited the island during the campaign. They meet in a tense runoff election May 7.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.