Is NBC Really Ready For Megyn Kelly?
Is NBC Really Ready For Megyn Kelly?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}   Mark Joyella       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo by Victoria Will/Invision/AP) Ready or not, the next “Megyn Kelly Moment” is about to begin. We learned this week that the former Fox News Channel star will make her NBC News debut sometime next month, which--as luck would have it--happens to be a sweeps month in television. So expect you’ll see more than a few reminders that Kelly has switched networks, and repeated urgent invitations to tune in and see Kelly in her new home at 30 Rock. Fox News recently released Kelly from her contract, allowing NBC to move her start date from sometime this summer, reportedly July, to sometime in the next five weeks. May is a much better month to make a splash ratings-wise, but the move from July to May also suggests NBC can confidently reveal just what Kelly will be doing in her new gig. After a few months with Kelly on the sidelines, the buzz-building for her return to the spotlight has begun. That means we're finally getting some details about Kelly’s two new NBC shows--right? Well, . We've learned, for instance, that when Kelly returns to TV next month, she may seem to show up everywhere all at once, with a big newsmaker interview that would have Kelly fronting the interview on all of NBC's key shows, from to .  reports NBC News chairman Andy Lack flew to Russia recently hoping to lock down a big "get"--President Vladimir Putin. That is, the interview happens and it doesn't go to Matt Lauer. Wait. What? Of course, that’s just part of what NBC is releasing as the network begins the careful rollout of its newest star. In an interview published today by , NBC News president Noah Oppenheim talked about Kelly’s new Sunday night show, even vaguely suggesting CBS’ isn’t the only Sunday news show in town. “ is an institution,” Oppenheim told . “No one here thinks we're going to supplant it, certainly not out of the gate. That said, it's a mistake to assume anyone has a stranglehold on anything long term.” Game on, right? And then there's the Megyn Kelly morning show. Oppenheim told it’ll launch in September, in the morning, at either 9 or 10 a.m., but Kelly won’t be a regular part of ’s first two hours. “There is no contemplation of her having a regular role on the 7-to-9. She'll appear on all the broadcasts of NBC News occasionally. If she gets a big interview, she's going to present pieces [on different broadcasts].” So, to recap: Megyn Kelly debuts on NBC next month doing , then launches a Sunday night show in June--show title, format and time to be announced. In September, the final piece of the puzzle falls into place with the launch of Kelly's morning show, at either 9 or 10, and perhaps as part of the franchise or maybe not. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Ready or not, the next “Megyn Kelly Moment” is about to begin.

We learned this week that the former Fox News Channel star will make her NBC News debut sometime next month, which--as luck would have it--happens to be a sweeps month in television. So expect you’ll see more than a few reminders that Kelly has switched networks, and repeated urgent invitations to tune in and see Kelly in her new home at 30 Rock.

Fox News recently released Kelly from her contract, allowing NBC to move her start date from sometime this summer, reportedly July, to sometime in the next five weeks. May is a much better month to make a splash ratings-wise, but the move from July to May also suggests NBC can confidently reveal just what Kelly will be doing in her new gig.

After a few months with Kelly on the sidelines, the buzz-building for her return to the spotlight has begun. That means we're finally getting some details about Kelly’s two new NBC shows--right?

Right?

Well, sort of.

We've learned, for instance, that when Kelly returns to TV next month, she may seem to show up everywhere all at once, with a big newsmaker interview that would have Kelly fronting the interview on all of NBC's key shows, from Today to NBC Nightly News. Page Six reports NBC News chairman Andy Lack flew to Russia recently hoping to lock down a big "get"--President Vladimir Putin.

That is, if the interview happens and if it doesn't go to Matt Lauer.

Wait. What?

Of course, that’s just part of what NBC is releasing as the network begins the careful rollout of its newest star. In an interview published today by The Hollywood Reporter, NBC News president Noah Oppenheim talked about Kelly’s new Sunday night show, even vaguely suggesting CBS’ 60 Minutes isn’t the only Sunday news show in town.

“60 Minutes is an institution,” Oppenheim told THR. “No one here thinks we're going to supplant it, certainly not out of the gate. That said, it's a mistake to assume anyone has a stranglehold on anything long term.”

Game on, right?

And then there's the Megyn Kelly morning show. Oppenheim told THR it’ll launch in September, in the morning, at either 9 or 10 a.m., but Kelly won’t be a regular part of Today’s first two hours.

“There is no contemplation of her having a regular role on the 7-to-9. She'll appear on all the broadcasts of NBC News occasionally. If she gets a big interview, she's going to present pieces [on different broadcasts].”

So, to recap: Megyn Kelly debuts on NBC next month doing something, then launches a Sunday night show in June--show title, format and time to be announced. In September, the final piece of the puzzle falls into place with the launch of Kelly's morning show, at either 9 or 10, and perhaps as part of the Today franchise or maybe not.