Caitlyn Jenner visits White House for meetings with Trump administration officials
Jenner visits White House for meetings with Trump officials
Shares                Caitlyn Jenner visited the White House Thursday for meetings with Trump administration officials, ABC News has confirmed. "She was there for meetings and on her promo tour for her new book ["The Secrets of My Life"], released this week," a rep for Jenner said. ABC News spotted Jenner -- whose now-cancelled E! docuseries "I Am Cait" chronicled her journey as a transgender woman -- entering the White House complex Thursday afternoon. It was unclear with whom she met. The New York Post's "Page Six" reported, however, that the former Olympian met with Vice President Mike Pence, whose spokesman did not immediately respond to ABC News' request for comment.     Jenner, 67, voted for President Trump , but she hasn't seen him since an inauguration party. She has since called out Trump for rescinding protections for transgender students. "He wanted me to come play golf with him,” Jenner told ABC News' Diane Sawyer earlier this month. "At that time, I thought it was a pretty good idea, but since Title IX , it's not a good idea and so I won't be playing golf with him ... Would I meet with him privately on this issue? Absolutely." Shares                  Jenner visits White House for meetings with Trump officials   Trump: There is 'absolutely' a chance of 'major, major conflict' with North Korea   Trump: Economic growth is going to pay for new tax cuts   Trump promise tracker: Where his pledges stand   Marine's daughters shadow members of Congress on Take Your Kid to Work Day   Obama administration reviewed Flynn's security clearance, Trump WH says   Inside the White House's sprint to the 100-day marker   Ex-Trump adviser Flynn under DOD investigation, had been warned not to take foreign payments   Trump plans to renegotiate NAFTA but may scrap it if 'fair deal' not reached   GOP tries to buy more time for funding bill negotiations   Memorable moments from Trump's first 100 days in office   ANALYSIS: Melania Trump's mold-breaking first 100 days as first lady   Tillerson says China asked North Korea to stop nuclear tests   Arkansas prepares to execute 4th prisoner in 8 days as lethal injection drug nears expiration   Senate confirms Alex Acosta as Trump's secretary of labor   Trump 'absolutely' considered breaking up 9th Circuit Court   2 people who've been pen pals for 42 years meet for the 1st time   Mom and 6 sons cut their hair, donate it to kids in need   SeaWorld welcomes unexpected sea lion pup amid care for sick mother   600-year-old tree that witnessed history taken down   Reebok trolls $425 'muddy' jeans with fake $425 sweaty T-shirt   Neanderthals in California? Maybe so, provocative study says   High school student athlete surprised with full college scholarship   Rapping maid of honor channels 'Real Slim Shady' in wedding speech   Baby's newborn photos celebrate firefighter mom, police officer dad   97-year-old fulfills lifelong firefighting dream on his birthday

Caitlyn Jenner visited the White House Thursday for meetings with Trump administration officials, ABC News has confirmed.

"She was there for meetings and on her promo tour for her new book ["The Secrets of My Life"], released this week," a rep for Jenner said.

ABC News spotted Jenner -- whose now-cancelled E! docuseries "I Am Cait" chronicled her journey as a transgender woman -- entering the White House complex Thursday afternoon.

It was unclear with whom she met. The New York Post's "Page Six" reported, however, that the former Olympian met with Vice President Mike Pence, whose spokesman did not immediately respond to ABC News' request for comment.

Jenner, 67, voted for President Trump, but she hasn't seen him since an inauguration party. She has since called out Trump for rescinding protections for transgender students.

"He wanted me to come play golf with him,” Jenner told ABC News' Diane Sawyer earlier this month. "At that time, I thought it was a pretty good idea, but since Title IX, it's not a good idea and so I won't be playing golf with him ... Would I meet with him privately on this issue? Absolutely."