BlackBerry Is Back With KEYone: Android Phone With Innovative Keyboard
BlackBerry Is Back With KEYone: Android Phone With Innovative Keyboard
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}   David Phelan       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Continued from page 1 David Phelan BlackBerry KEYone with all its keyboard glory Today’s launch is the fullest expression of the Android BlackBerry system, promising the latest OS (Nougat 7.1) and a display which, executives pointed out at the launch, offers more usable space than most touchscreen phones once their touch keyboards block part of the screen. This phone is built by TCL Communications, a Chinese multi-national company. Forbes will be reviewing the phone in detail soon but first impressions are strong. Gareth Hurn, Global Head of Device Portfolio, said the new phone is built to be unlike any other, to suit “professional consumers looking for something different. It keeps them safe and secure and helps them get the maximum of their day.” Hurn says this phone will appeal to those “who were seduced by another product with a bigger screen or more applications – but those differences are over.” He described it as the world’s most secure Android phone. The battery, he says, will last for 26 hours in mixed use and can regain a 50 per cent charge in 30 minutes. Key among the innovations, and a clear signifier of the KEYone name is the fact that the keyboard works like a touchpad as well. If one of the three words suggested as you type turns out to be one you want, just flick upwards underneath the word to see it appear onscreen. Swipe left and right on the space bar to scroll forward or back between web pages. And you can custom-set each of the 26 keys to perform a function, two each, actually. A short press on W can launch WhatsApp, a long press invoke the Weather app. Or assign a contact or your home address in Google Maps and so on. The BlackBerry execs were certainly bullish, espousing that “Tens of millions of customers are going to come back because they have different priorities.” Time will tell, but it certainly looks more promising than some of its more recent attempts.  Follow me on Twitter and Instagram Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Continued from page 1

David Phelan

Today’s launch is the fullest expression of the Android BlackBerry system, promising the latest OS (Nougat 7.1) and a display which, executives pointed out at the launch, offers more usable space than most touchscreen phones once their touch keyboards block part of the screen. This phone is built by TCL Communications, a Chinese multi-national company.

Forbes will be reviewing the phone in detail soon but first impressions are strong. Gareth Hurn, Global Head of Device Portfolio, said the new phone is built to be unlike any other, to suit “professional consumers looking for something different. It keeps them safe and secure and helps them get the maximum of their day.” Hurn says this phone will appeal to those “who were seduced by another product with a bigger screen or more applications – but those differences are over.” He described it as the world’s most secure Android phone.

The battery, he says, will last for 26 hours in mixed use and can regain a 50 per cent charge in 30 minutes.

Key among the innovations, and a clear signifier of the KEYone name is the fact that the keyboard works like a touchpad as well. If one of the three words suggested as you type turns out to be one you want, just flick upwards underneath the word to see it appear onscreen. Swipe left and right on the space bar to scroll forward or back between web pages. And you can custom-set each of the 26 keys to perform a function, two each, actually. A short press on W can launch WhatsApp, a long press invoke the Weather app. Or assign a contact or your home address in Google Maps and so on.

The BlackBerry execs were certainly bullish, espousing that “Tens of millions of customers are going to come back because they have different priorities.”

Time will tell, but it certainly looks more promising than some of its more recent attempts.

More on Forbes

Galaxy S8: Ten Ways The LG G6 Holds Its Own Against Samsung

Earth Day Apple Watch Challenge: Apple's Cool iPhone and Apple Watch Features

New Apple iPad Reviewed: Brighter, Faster, Better And Above All Cheaper Than Ever

Clips, The Coolest, Most Fun Thing Apple Has Done In A Long While

The One Thing Nobody Has Told You About The Samsung Galaxy S8 (Updated)

Ten Things To Love Or Not About The New Apple iPhone 7 Plus (PRODUCT)RED: Hands-On

Follow me on Twitter and Instagram