James Earl Jones to get Tony Award for lifetime achievement
James Earl Jones to get Tony Award for lifetime achievement
Shares                Two-time Tony Award winner James Earl Jones will soon get a third — for lifetime achievement. The Tony Awards Administration Committee said Thursday that Jones will receive the Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Theatre on June 11 at the Tony Awards. Jones, the voice of Darth Vader and Mufasa from Disney's " The Lion King ," has won Tonys for "The Great White Hope" and "Fences." His Broadway credits also include "On Golden Pond," ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," ''Driving Miss Daisy," ''The Best Man" and "The Gin Game." Shares                  James Earl Jones to get Tony Award for lifetime achievement   Chris Soules' attorneys say he did everything he could to help crash victim   Ali Stroker says she's excited role on 'Ten Days in the Valley' isn't all about her disability   Why Goldie Hawn took a 15-year break from movies   Caitlyn Jenner felt like a 'punching bag' in marriage to Kris Jenner   Kim Kardashian West says robbery was 'meant to happen to me'   Kourtney Kardashian celebrates birthday with epic vacation in Mexico   John Legend on taking 1-year-old daughter on tour   Prince Jackson explains his personal connection to foster youths   Dale Earnhardt Jr. opens up about his retirement: 'I don’t want to let anybody down'   Tillerson says China asked North Korea to stop nuclear tests   Arkansas prepares to execute 4th prisoner in 8 days as lethal injection drug nears expiration   Trump to sign order aimed at expanding offshore drilling   Senate confirms Alex Acosta as Trump's secretary of labor   Florida teacher is teaching acceptance of all people, one video at a time   2 people who've been pen pals for 42 years meet for the 1st time   Mom and 6 sons cut their hair, donate it to kids in need   SeaWorld welcomes unexpected sea lion pup amid care for sick mother   600-year-old tree that witnessed history taken down   Reebok trolls $425 'muddy' jeans with fake $425 sweaty T-shirt   Neanderthals in California? Maybe so, provocative study says   High school student athlete surprised with full college scholarship   Rapping maid of honor channels 'Real Slim Shady' in wedding speech

Two-time Tony Award winner James Earl Jones will soon get a third — for lifetime achievement.

The Tony Awards Administration Committee said Thursday that Jones will receive the Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Theatre on June 11 at the Tony Awards.

Jones, the voice of Darth Vader and Mufasa from Disney's "The Lion King," has won Tonys for "The Great White Hope" and "Fences." His Broadway credits also include "On Golden Pond," ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," ''Driving Miss Daisy," ''The Best Man" and "The Gin Game."