Meet the woman who did the iconic Rage intro scream



Meet the woman who did the iconic Rage intro scream

Updated

R-R-R-Raaaage: for decades it's been the unmistakeable sound of staying up late, coming home early and absolutely, definitely, 100 per cent going to bed after one more clip.

But for former actress and singer Deni Gordon, recording the famous scream from the Rage intro was just another day in the office.

"I was doing some ABC TV show, I was in a studio, I think we were putting down some vocal tracks that day. Someone popped into the studio, needing someone to do 'Rage-Rage-Rage'.

"I can't say that it even took 10 minutes. Then I was done with it and never really thought about it again."

She was paid just $40 for the scream, which has been played thousands of times over the last three decades. We did the maths: that equates to way less than a cent per play.

"Maybe if I were receiving little presents or something every year ... I'd think it was something that was great to be part of," says Gordon. "But I hear nothing of it. I don't have any contact with anyone, there's no discussion from anyone.

"I thought it was just forgotten. Why would anyone mention it?

"No one's ever said, 'Thanks for Rage.'"

Born and raised in New York, Gordon arrived in Australia in 1969 after being cast in the local production of the musical Hair. When she was offered the part, she knew so little about the country that she had to ask whether Australians spoke English.

"I just came home one day and said, 'I'm going to Australia next week, I'm never coming back, see ya!'"

The culture shock was extreme. Sydney in 1969 was a far cry from New York. Gordon wondered why nobody was out and about on the streets, and was surprised to learn people preferred to hang out in their backyards.

She had difficulty understanding the accent, and, as an African-American, found Australians disconnected from the civil rights struggle that was then taking place.

"It was exciting because it was so new, [but] it was so different to what was going on back home. 'Hello, it's 1969, people, let's get with the program!'

"But there was something really quaint and lovely about that."

Gordon met the 16-year-old Marcia Hines when she arrived to play the lead role in the Melbourne production of Hair in 1970, and the two became close friends.

In fact, Hines' pop-star daughter Deni was nicknamed after Gordon, who says that the existence of two black women called Deni in Australia sometimes proves too much for people to deal with.

"I went to a dinner one night with some people and they said, 'We love your music.'

"I said, 'I don't think you do, I think you're thinking of someone else.'"

"Read the rings around my neck! It cannot be me. This child is not me, I am much older than she is!"

Gordon went on to appear in numerous other stage musicals, including Jesus Christ Superstar and The Rocky Horror Show. You may also remember her from The Matrix, playing a priestess of the Oracle ("a door bitch" in her words), or as teacher Ronnie Brooks in Heartbreak High.

She's also done a range of odd jobs, from catering to English teaching to working as a live-in nanny for Jack Thompson's kids.

She gave up show business after a back injury seven years ago, but remains energetic and theatrical.

After keeping her promise to never go back to the USA, Gordon has picked up an accent — a riotous collision of her native New York intonation and Australia's flattened vowels — and a new family.

Her daughter Hali appeared in a later production of Hair, which Gordon thought was great, at least until the infamous nude scene. These days Deni has two grandkids, who clearly adore her.

Maybe that's why, after living in the country for more than 45 years, she's finally decided to become a citizen.

"I thought, I really have to do it now. I just want to declare my loyalty to the country," she says, with only a hint of staginess.

And surely if anyone deserves to be a citizen of Australia, it's the lady whose scream has kept us company, woken us up and heralded the dawn for three decades now.

Topics: community-and-society, history, music, music-industry, arts-and-entertainment, television-broadcasting, sydney-2000

First posted