Daughters of fallen Marine shadow members of Congress on Take Your Kid to Work Day
Marine's daughters shadow members of Congress on Take Your Kid to Work Day
Shares                Capitol Hill was crawling with kids Thursday. Beyond the usual school groups and tours, there were dozens of youngsters joining their parents for national Take Your Kid to Work Day. House Speaker Paul Ryan ended his weekly press conference by asking all the "junior" reporters to come onstage for a picture.   The son of a Getty photographer was there to capture the moment.  Pretty great. @somogettynews ' photog son works the angles to capture Speaker Ryan at the podium. pic.twitter.com/swkA4IVWKc  Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi greeted children for photos with her office too.   Among those shadowing the grown-ups were two girls from Texas who lost their father, a former Marine, a few years ago. First Sergeant Jonathan Compton served in the U.S. Marines for 15 years, including in combat, before taking his own life in 2014. Thanks to an organization called Tuesday's Children, which was established after 9/11 to help care for kids who lost parents, Compton's two daughters and other children of fallen military service members were able to fly to Washington go to work today with members of Congress. Compton's two daughters, both with long straight hair and freckles on the bridge of their noses, met with both Democrats and Republicans today. They heard speeches and even went to meetings. Bailey, aged 7, said the best part of her day was meeting Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL). Kelly took the young girl on to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.   "She took pledge of allegiance and heard each congressperson give their messages," Kelly told ABC about Bailey's visit. She said her message to all girls was that they should run for office one day. Bailey replied by saying, “I may be the president.” Sara Compton, Johnathan’s widow, took the girls to see the national monuments yesterday and joined her family at the Capitol today. She said her husband would have been proud and “so excited” to see his girls in the halls of Congress. “We think of him every day and everywhere we are. It is so important to me to shine a light on the need for mental health benefits, not only for our veterans but for our first responders,” she told ABC News. Compton served in the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit's maritime raid force. Shares                  Marine's daughters shadow members of Congress on Take Your Kid to Work Day   Jenner visits White House for meetings with Trump officials   Trump: Economic growth is going to pay for new tax cuts   Trump promise tracker: Where his pledges stand   Obama administration reviewed Flynn's security clearance, Trump WH says   Inside the White House's sprint to the 100-day marker   Ex-Trump adviser Flynn under DOD investigation, had been warned not to take foreign payments   Trump plans to renegotiate NAFTA but may scrap it if 'fair deal' not reached   GOP tries to buy more time for funding bill negotiations   Memorable moments from Trump's first 100 days in office   ANALYSIS: Melania Trump's mold-breaking first 100 days as first lady   Treasury secretary can't guarantee middle class wouldn't pay more under tax plan   Senate confirms Alex Acosta as Trump's secretary of labor   Trump 'absolutely' considered breaking up 9th Circuit Court   2 people who've been pen pals for 42 years meet for the 1st time   Mom and 6 sons cut their hair, donate it to kids in need   SeaWorld welcomes unexpected sea lion pup amid care for sick mother   600-year-old tree that witnessed history taken down   Reebok trolls $425 'muddy' jeans with fake $425 sweaty T-shirt   Neanderthals in California? Maybe so, provocative study says   High school student athlete surprised with full college scholarship   Rapping maid of honor channels 'Real Slim Shady' in wedding speech   Baby's newborn photos celebrate firefighter mom, police officer dad   97-year-old fulfills lifelong firefighting dream on his birthday

Capitol Hill was crawling with kids Thursday. Beyond the usual school groups and tours, there were dozens of youngsters joining their parents for national Take Your Kid to Work Day.

House Speaker Paul Ryan ended his weekly press conference by asking all the "junior" reporters to come onstage for a picture.

Getty Images

The son of a Getty photographer was there to capture the moment.

Pretty great. @somogettynews' photog son works the angles to capture Speaker Ryan at the podium. pic.twitter.com/swkA4IVWKc — AshLee Strong (@AshLeeStrong) April 27, 2017

Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi greeted children for photos with her office too.

REUTERS

Among those shadowing the grown-ups were two girls from Texas who lost their father, a former Marine, a few years ago.

First Sergeant Jonathan Compton served in the U.S. Marines for 15 years, including in combat, before taking his own life in 2014. Thanks to an organization called Tuesday's Children, which was established after 9/11 to help care for kids who lost parents, Compton's two daughters and other children of fallen military service members were able to fly to Washington go to work today with members of Congress.

Compton's two daughters, both with long straight hair and freckles on the bridge of their noses, met with both Democrats and Republicans today. They heard speeches and even went to meetings. Bailey, aged 7, said the best part of her day was meeting Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL). Kelly took the young girl on to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.

Sara Compton

"She took pledge of allegiance and heard each congressperson give their messages," Kelly told ABC about Bailey's visit. She said her message to all girls was that they should run for office one day. Bailey replied by saying, “I may be the president.”

Sara Compton, Johnathan’s widow, took the girls to see the national monuments yesterday and joined her family at the Capitol today. She said her husband would have been proud and “so excited” to see his girls in the halls of Congress.

“We think of him every day and everywhere we are. It is so important to me to shine a light on the need for mental health benefits, not only for our veterans but for our first responders,” she told ABC News.

Compton served in the 11th Marine Expeditionary Unit's maritime raid force.