With later start times in second round, Metro could be an issue for Caps fans

A year ago, Metro announced that select stations near Verizon Center would stay open an hour later than usual for Game 1 of the second-round playoff series between the Capitals and Penguins. That won’t be the case when the Metropolitan Division rivals again square off in the second round beginning Thursday, meaning D.C. sports fans who rely on Metro to get to and from Verizon Center will have to keep a close eye on the clock or find alternative means of transportation. Last May, Metro suspended all early openings and late closings for special events during its year-long SafeTrack maintenance blitz. Game 1 is set for 7:30 p.m. on Thursday and Game 2 is Saturday at 8 p.m. The start times for Games 5 and 7 at Verizon Center , if necessary, have not been announced. If Games 1 and 2 end in regulation, Metro’s midnight closing time shouldn’t be a problem, but five of the six games in Washington’s first-round series against the Maple Leafs went to overtime, including three at Verizon Center. Game 2, which started at 7 p.m. like every other home game in the series, went to double-overtime before Kasperi Kapanen’s goal ended it at 11:35 p.m.   The double OT crowd is about to thin. pic.twitter.com/Hl0drFmpox — Isabelle Khurshudyan (@ikhurshudyan) April 16, 2017 Here are the times for the last trains at Gallery Place and Metro Center, according to WMATA.com : Green Line to Branch Ave. 11:55 p.m. Green Line to Greenbelt 12:16 a.m. Red Line to Shady Grove 12:02 a.m. Red Line to Glenmont 12:08 a.m. Yellow Line to Huntington 11:57 p.m. Silver Line to Wiehle-Reston East 11:40 p.m. Blue Line to Franconia-Springfield 11:53 p.m. Silver/Blue Line to Largo Town Center 12:06 a.m. Red Line to Glenmont 12:06 a.m. Red Line to Shady Grove 12:06 a.m. Orange Line to New Carrollton 11:54 p.m. Orange Line to Vienna/Fairfax-GMU 12:06 a.m.   Metro suspended service on the Red Line between Gallery Place and Dupont Circle on Thursday morning due to fire department activity. It’s unclear how that disruption might affect Thursday’s evening commute. It’s also unclear how a planned “sickout” by members of Metro’s largest labor union to protest a new absenteeism policy might affect Saturday’s service, if at all. For Game 5 of the Nationals’ NLDS series against the Dodgers last season, Nationals fans arranged carpools and other ride-sharing options to avoid having to rely on Metro. Greater Greater Washington has put together a guide to getting home on various buses if the game ends after Metrorail closes.



Metro could once again be an issue for Capitals fans. (Patrick Smith/Getty Images)

A year ago, Metro announced that select stations near Verizon Center would stay open an hour later than usual for Game 1 of the second-round playoff series between the Capitals and Penguins. That won’t be the case when the Metropolitan Division rivals again square off in the second round beginning Thursday, meaning D.C. sports fans who rely on Metro to get to and from Verizon Center will have to keep a close eye on the clock or find alternative means of transportation.

Last May, Metro suspended all early openings and late closings for special events during its year-long SafeTrack maintenance blitz. Game 1 is set for 7:30 p.m. on Thursday and Game 2 is Saturday at 8 p.m. The start times for Games 5 and 7 at Verizon Center, if necessary, have not been announced. If Games 1 and 2 end in regulation, Metro’s midnight closing time shouldn’t be a problem, but five of the six games in Washington’s first-round series against the Maple Leafs went to overtime, including three at Verizon Center. Game 2, which started at 7 p.m. like every other home game in the series, went to double-overtime before Kasperi Kapanen’s goal ended it at 11:35 p.m.

[The one speech I wrote for Obama that I didn’t believe in: Praising the Penguins]

The double OT crowd is about to thin. pic.twitter.com/Hl0drFmpox — Isabelle Khurshudyan (@ikhurshudyan) April 16, 2017

Here are the times for the last trains at Gallery Place and Metro Center, according to WMATA.com:

Gallery Place

Green Line to Branch Ave. 11:55 p.m.

Green Line to Greenbelt 12:16 a.m.

Red Line to Shady Grove 12:02 a.m.

Red Line to Glenmont 12:08 a.m.

Yellow Line to Huntington 11:57 p.m.

Metro Center

Silver Line to Wiehle-Reston East 11:40 p.m.

Blue Line to Franconia-Springfield 11:53 p.m.

Silver/Blue Line to Largo Town Center 12:06 a.m.

Red Line to Glenmont 12:06 a.m.

Red Line to Shady Grove 12:06 a.m.

Orange Line to New Carrollton 11:54 p.m.

Orange Line to Vienna/Fairfax-GMU 12:06 a.m.

[Metro workers planning ‘sick-out’ Friday]

Metro suspended service on the Red Line between Gallery Place and Dupont Circle on Thursday morning due to fire department activity. It’s unclear how that disruption might affect Thursday’s evening commute. It’s also unclear how a planned “sickout” by members of Metro’s largest labor union to protest a new absenteeism policy might affect Saturday’s service, if at all.

For Game 5 of the Nationals’ NLDS series against the Dodgers last season, Nationals fans arranged carpools and other ride-sharing options to avoid having to rely on Metro. Greater Greater Washington has put together a guide to getting home on various buses if the game ends after Metrorail closes.