Salma Hayek's Dogs Crashed A Wedding Over Cake And The Story Is Hilarious
Salma Hayek's Dogs Crashed A Wedding Over Cake And The Story Is Hilarious
Salma Hayek’s dogs won’t let anything get between them and their cake, not even a bride and groom. The star stopped by “The Ellen Show” on Wednesday to discuss her new movie “How to Be a Latin Lover” and ended up revealing how her dogs’ love of cake has gotten her into trouble. Hayek told host Ellen DeGeneres that one of the “worst” incidents took place at a very luxurious hotel in the Bahamas that didn’t want her to bring her dogs. The actress eventually convinced them to let her and two of her rescued dogs stay, but one night 17-year-old Lupe and her sister weren’t where she expected them to be. “One day, I arrive and they’re not there,” Hayek said, referencing her dogs. “And then I hear this screaming and big commotion. And I have to tell you that Lupe loves cake more than anything in the world. You don’t know how many birthday parties were ruined ... and I was like, ‘Oh, my god, this sounds like a cake.’” After following the screams, Hayek found her dogs crashing a “beautiful wedding” and feasting on the cake. “I see the beautiful wedding cake in a little table with two chairs for the bride and the groom,” she said. “Instead of the bride and the groom, there is Lupe and Angie sitting perfectly.” Watch Hayek describe the scene and how she got her cake-loving dogs to behave in the clip above. ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE: CONVERSATIONS   Learn more

Salma Hayek’s dogs won’t let anything get between them and their cake, not even a bride and groom.

The star stopped by “The Ellen Show” on Wednesday to discuss her new movie “How to Be a Latin Lover” and ended up revealing how her dogs’ love of cake has gotten her into trouble.

Hayek told host Ellen DeGeneres that one of the “worst” incidents took place at a very luxurious hotel in the Bahamas that didn’t want her to bring her dogs. The actress eventually convinced them to let her and two of her rescued dogs stay, but one night 17-year-old Lupe and her sister weren’t where she expected them to be.

“One day, I arrive and they’re not there,” Hayek said, referencing her dogs. “And then I hear this screaming and big commotion. And I have to tell you that Lupe loves cake more than anything in the world. You don’t know how many birthday parties were ruined ... and I was like, ‘Oh, my god, this sounds like a cake.’”

After following the screams, Hayek found her dogs crashing a “beautiful wedding” and feasting on the cake.

“I see the beautiful wedding cake in a little table with two chairs for the bride and the groom,” she said. “Instead of the bride and the groom, there is Lupe and Angie sitting perfectly.”