Mom lets daughter's school know her 10-year-old is 'done' with homework
Mom lets daughter's school know her 10-year-old is 'done' with homework
Making tough calls for your children is a vital aspect of parenting. One brave mother stepped up to the parenting plate for her child, sharing an email she sent to her daughter's school explaining that her 10 year old is "done with homework" because of the undue stress it causes. SEE ALSO: Instead of telling women who might get pregnant they can't drink, study suggests trusting them Bunmi Laditan , a mom blogger in Quebec, explained on Facebook that she told her daughter's school that her child would be "drastically reducing" the homework she'd be completing, but that she "was trying to be polite because [her daughter is] finished." “I just sent an email to her school letting her know she’s all done,” the mother wrote. "Over the past four years I've noticed her getting more and more stressed when it comes to school," the troubled mother wrote, "And by stressed I mean chest pains, waking up early, and dreading school in general." Laditan explained that her daughter often does homework until 6:30 p.m., with little to no time to relax after dinner. “Is family time not important?” she wrote, “Is time spent just being a child relaxing at home not important? Or should she become some kind of junior workaholic at 10 years old?" “Children need downtime after school the same way adults need downtime after work. They need to play with their siblings," she continued. Laditan later commented on her own post to further explain her point of view. Image: bunmi laditan/facebook The mother clarified that she wasn’t blaming her daughter’s "incredible" teachers, and that she simply feels the system isn’t working for her child. “I can’t watch her unravel anymore and be filled with so much stress at age 10,” she explained. Parents, teachers, and even therapists sounded off in the post's comment section in support of Laditan, relating similar experiences with children in their own lives. Image: kim tang/facebook Image: Katie chavarria/facebook Image: Erin avirett/facebook Image: jamie ellam davis/facebook Seems like this mom might be on to something. WATCH: This NYU student went undercover as a worker in a Chinese iPhone factory

Making tough calls for your children is a vital aspect of parenting.

One brave mother stepped up to the parenting plate for her child, sharing an email she sent to her daughter's school explaining that her 10 year old is "done with homework" because of the undue stress it causes.

Bunmi Laditan, a mom blogger in Quebec, explained on Facebook that she told her daughter's school that her child would be "drastically reducing" the homework she'd be completing, but that she "was trying to be polite because [her daughter is] finished."

“I just sent an email to her school letting her know she’s all done,” the mother wrote.

"Over the past four years I've noticed her getting more and more stressed when it comes to school," the troubled mother wrote, "And by stressed I mean chest pains, waking up early, and dreading school in general."

Laditan explained that her daughter often does homework until 6:30 p.m., with little to no time to relax after dinner.

“Is family time not important?” she wrote, “Is time spent just being a child relaxing at home not important? Or should she become some kind of junior workaholic at 10 years old?"

“Children need downtime after school the same way adults need downtime after work. They need to play with their siblings," she continued.

Laditan later commented on her own post to further explain her point of view.

The mother clarified that she wasn’t blaming her daughter’s "incredible" teachers, and that she simply feels the system isn’t working for her child.

“I can’t watch her unravel anymore and be filled with so much stress at age 10,” she explained.

Parents, teachers, and even therapists sounded off in the post's comment section in support of Laditan, relating similar experiences with children in their own lives.

Seems like this mom might be on to something.