A timeline of events surrounding the suspicious death of NY judge
A timeline of events surrounding the suspicious death of NY judge
Shares               When the body of prominent New York Judge Sheila Abdus-Salaam was discovered on April 12 alongside the Hudson River in Manhattan, family, friends and those who knew her best in the New York community were stunned. “As the first African-American woman to be appointed to the state's Court of Appeals, she was a pioneer," New York Governor Andrew Cuomo , who appointed Abdus-Salaam to the state’s Court of Appeals in 2013, tells the Associated Press . "Through her writings, her wisdom and her unshakable moral compass, she was a force for good whose legacy will be felt for years to come." While officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, initially told AP that the death was believed to be a suicide, a spokeswoman for the city’s medical examiner later countered those statements saying that an autopsy conducted on 65-year-old Abdus-Salaam’s body was inconclusive and required further investigation.     With the New York Police Department officially referring to her death as suspicious, below is a timeline of events leading up to Abdus-Salaam’s death.   Judge Sheila Abdus-Salaam, who was a 1977 graduate of Columbia University Law School, spoke at her alma mater’s 3rd annual Empowering Women of Color conference on Friday, March 24. Columbia University Law School remembered the highly-respected judge with a post on their school’s website on April 13 where Dean Gillian Lester wrote, “And, perhaps making this loss most sharply painful, next Tuesday, she was to be the featured speaker at our annual alumni of color gathering, an event that will be postponed in light of this terrible loss.” Abdus-Salaam was also a committee member for her class's 40th reunion in June.   Marilyn Mobley, an official at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland and a close friend of Abdus-Salaam, told the that she met with her friend for breakfast just two weeks before her death in New York. “What she shared with me is she had been under a lot of stress recently and that she was having trouble sleeping,” said Dr. Mobley. “The truth is she was accomplished, resilient and strong, and she had a breaking point like everyone else. I fear it got there.”   Abdus-Salaam often split her time between her New Jersey home that she shared with her husband, Rev. Gregory Jacobs, and her Harlem home. The weekend before her death, AP reports that she spent time in New Jersey with Jacobs.   Judge Abdus-Salaam, who was a cancer survivor, had visited her doctor on Monday and told the physician that she had been “stressed with the demands of work” and “not spending time with her husband,” The New York Times reported. The 65-year-old was also seen on the subway just two days before her death by longtime friend and former state assemblyman Keith Wright, according to AP. “Sheila was one of the most rational measured and intellectual folks that I’ve ever known,” Wright tells the AP. “I don’t believe she killed herself.” AP also reports that Abdus-Salaam last spoke to her husband around 7 p.m. Monday after she had gone to her second home in Harlem.   Abdus-Salaam spoke to her assistant by phone Tuesday morning, the AP reports. Later that day around 8 p.m., a surveillance video recovered by NYPD shows Abdus-Salaam walking alone in the direction of the river in her Harlem neighborhood, according to ABC-owned station WABC-TV .   The body of the highly-respected judge was found at 1:45 p.m. after someone spotted it on the shore of the Hudson River near West 132nd Street, WABC reports. Police, who initially said no foul play was suspected in the case, are now going back on their words after a further investigation revealed no clear indication of suicide or criminality, according to WABC-TV. Shares                  A timeline of events surrounding the suspicious death of NY judge   Tillerson says China asked North Korea to stop nuclear tests   Arkansas executes 4th prisoner in 8 days as lethal injection drug nears expiration   Immigrants plan May Day rallies buoyed by Trump opposition   Georgia lawmaker deals cannabis oil in shadows of the law   Le Pen's party in new turmoil over alleged Holocaust denial   Second man charged in fatal shooting of judge in Chicago   Trump to sign order aimed at expanding offshore drilling   Senate confirms Alex Acosta as Trump's secretary of labor   Trump 'absolutely' considered breaking up 9th Circuit Court   Florida teacher is teaching acceptance of all people, one video at a time   2 people who've been pen pals for 42 years meet for the 1st time   Mom and 6 sons cut their hair, donate it to kids in need   SeaWorld welcomes unexpected sea lion pup amid care for sick mother   600-year-old tree that witnessed history taken down   Reebok trolls $425 'muddy' jeans with fake $425 sweaty T-shirt   Neanderthals in California? Maybe so, provocative study says   High school student athlete surprised with full college scholarship   Rapping maid of honor channels 'Real Slim Shady' in wedding speech   Aide: Blacks not trying hard enough to work with Trump   Suspect in killing of trooper ID'd after being shot dead in hourslong standoff   Suspect allegedly chased Delaware state trooper before shooting him   Kansas governor seeks $24M to ban guns at state hospitals   Mexico Senate OKs disappearance law, calls for search system   Trump tower fated not to rise in Indonesian isle of the gods   2nd Waffle House co-founder dies weeks after partner's death   California says oceans expected to rise higher than thought   Trump finds that CEO-as-president isn't always a natural fit   United reaches 'amicable' settlement with doctor dragged off flight   Delta passenger kicked off flight after bathroom emergency   More details emerge from internal report on United flight dustup   One woman's story of exercise addiction shows the consequences   Exercise can help offset effects of 'fat gene,' study finds   Chris Soules' attorneys say he did everything he could to help crash victim   Train delays likely this summer over work at Penn Station   ANALYSIS: Melania Trump's mold-breaking first 100 days as first lady   Caitlyn Jenner felt like a 'punching bag' in marriage to Kris Jenner   Review: In 'Casting JonBenet,' reliving a tabloid sensation

When the body of prominent New York Judge Sheila Abdus-Salaam was discovered on April 12 alongside the Hudson River in Manhattan, family, friends and those who knew her best in the New York community were stunned.

“As the first African-American woman to be appointed to the state's Court of Appeals, she was a pioneer," New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, who appointed Abdus-Salaam to the state’s Court of Appeals in 2013, tells the Associated Press. "Through her writings, her wisdom and her unshakable moral compass, she was a force for good whose legacy will be felt for years to come."

While officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, initially told AP that the death was believed to be a suicide, a spokeswoman for the city’s medical examiner later countered those statements saying that an autopsy conducted on 65-year-old Abdus-Salaam’s body was inconclusive and required further investigation.

With the New York Police Department officially referring to her death as suspicious, below is a timeline of events leading up to Abdus-Salaam’s death.

March 24, 2017:

Judge Sheila Abdus-Salaam, who was a 1977 graduate of Columbia University Law School, spoke at her alma mater’s 3rd annual Empowering Women of Color conference on Friday, March 24.

Columbia University Law School remembered the highly-respected judge with a post on their school’s website on April 13 where Dean Gillian Lester wrote, “And, perhaps making this loss most sharply painful, next Tuesday, she was to be the featured speaker at our annual alumni of color gathering, an event that will be postponed in light of this terrible loss.”

Abdus-Salaam was also a committee member for her class's 40th reunion in June.

Week of March 27, 2017:

Marilyn Mobley, an official at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland and a close friend of Abdus-Salaam, told the New York Times that she met with her friend for breakfast just two weeks before her death in New York.

“What she shared with me is she had been under a lot of stress recently and that she was having trouble sleeping,” said Dr. Mobley. “The truth is she was accomplished, resilient and strong, and she had a breaking point like everyone else. I fear it got there.”

Weekend of April 8, 2017:

Abdus-Salaam often split her time between her New Jersey home that she shared with her husband, Rev. Gregory Jacobs, and her Harlem home. The weekend before her death, AP reports that she spent time in New Jersey with Jacobs.

April 10, 2017:

Judge Abdus-Salaam, who was a cancer survivor, had visited her doctor on Monday and told the physician that she had been “stressed with the demands of work” and “not spending time with her husband,” The New York Times reported.

The 65-year-old was also seen on the subway just two days before her death by longtime friend and former state assemblyman Keith Wright, according to AP.

“Sheila was one of the most rational measured and intellectual folks that I’ve ever known,” Wright tells the AP. “I don’t believe she killed herself.”

AP also reports that Abdus-Salaam last spoke to her husband around 7 p.m. Monday after she had gone to her second home in Harlem.

April 11, 2017:

Abdus-Salaam spoke to her assistant by phone Tuesday morning, the AP reports.

Later that day around 8 p.m., a surveillance video recovered by NYPD shows Abdus-Salaam walking alone in the direction of the river in her Harlem neighborhood, according to ABC-owned station WABC-TV.

April 12, 2017:

The body of the highly-respected judge was found at 1:45 p.m. after someone spotted it on the shore of the Hudson River near West 132nd Street, WABC reports.

Police, who initially said no foul play was suspected in the case, are now going back on their words after a further investigation revealed no clear indication of suicide or criminality, according to WABC-TV.