Annoyed By Flight Delay, Man Tweets 'Hijack' To PM Modi, Gets Deplaned And Arrested
Annoyed By Flight Delay, Man Tweets 'Hijack' To PM Modi, Gets Deplaned And Arrested
Annoyed By Flight Delay, Man Tweets 'Hijack' To PM Modi, Gets Deplaned And Arrested A 35-year-old man created panic on Thursday by tweeting to PM Narendra Modi that he feared the Mumbai-Delhi flight he was travelling in had been hijacked. The passenger, Nitin Verma, said he was annoyed that the flight took off from Mumbai at 11.30 am after a delay of three hours. The flight was diverted to Jaipur due to congestion at the Delhi airport. He was de-boarded in Jaipur and detained by CISF and police for questioning for another three hours. According to police, despite boarding, the New Delhi flight didn't take off from Mumbai for three hours due to "technical reasons". This made Varma tweet to Modi: "Sir, we have been in Jet Airways Flight for past 3 hours, looks like hijacked. Pl help." The tweet swung the PM office into action and the Airports Authority of India, the air traffic control and security agencies were alerted. @narendramodi sir we have been in jet airways flight for past 3 hrs , looks like hijacked, pl help 9W355,. pic.twitter.com/bcRXcCLgic "Since he created panic, a case would be registered against him," said MP Bansal, officiating airport director, Jaipur. DCP (East) of Jaipur police, Kunwar Rastradeep, said Verma was annoyed with the delay. The officer said a case of criminal intimidation under IPC Section 503 and 506 had been registered and Varma would be produced before a magistrate on Friday.

A 35-year-old man created panic on Thursday by tweeting to PM Narendra Modi that he feared the Mumbai-Delhi flight he was travelling in had been hijacked.

BCCL

The passenger, Nitin Verma, said he was annoyed that the flight took off from Mumbai at 11.30 am after a delay of three hours. The flight was diverted to Jaipur due to congestion at the Delhi airport. He was de-boarded in Jaipur and detained by CISF and police for questioning for another three hours.

According to police, despite boarding, the New Delhi flight didn't take off from Mumbai for three hours due to "technical reasons". This made Varma tweet to Modi: "Sir, we have been in Jet Airways Flight for past 3 hours, looks like hijacked. Pl help." The tweet swung the PM office into action and the Airports Authority of India, the air traffic control and security agencies were alerted.

@narendramodi sir we have been in jet airways flight for past 3 hrs , looks like hijacked, pl help 9W355,. pic.twitter.com/bcRXcCLgic — Nitin (@nitinvarma5n) 27 April 2017

"Since he created panic, a case would be registered against him," said MP Bansal, officiating airport director, Jaipur. DCP (East) of Jaipur police, Kunwar Rastradeep, said Verma was annoyed with the delay. The officer said a case of criminal intimidation under IPC Section 503 and 506 had been registered and Varma would be produced before a magistrate on Friday.

Originally published in Times of India

Don't Miss 4.9 K SHARES 940 SHARES 29.2 K SHARES 21.3 K SHARES 30 K SHARES