CRPF Jawan Who Lost A Brother In Sukma Attack Slams Government In A Viral FB Live Video
CRPF Jawan Who Lost A Brother In Sukma Attack Slams Government In A Viral FB Live Video
CRPF Jawan Who Lost A Brother In Sukma Attack Slams Government In A Viral FB Live Video A CRPF Jawan vented his frustration in a viral Facebook video after the recent Sukma attack. He claims to have lost a relative in the deadly naxal attack in Chhattisgarh on Monday. He ranted against Home Minister Rajnath Singh. The jawan, Pankaj Mishra, is posted in the 221 battalion of CRPF, stationed at Durgapur in West Bengal. He is the latest to join the list of men in uniform venting out against the government apathy. In the video, Mishra says, The video has been shared 950 times and viewed over 35000 times so far. Mishra’s Facebook timeline reveals some graphic images of CRPF men committing suicide and shows them in distress. He revealed that out of the Naxalites that attacked the CRPF jawans in Sukma, around 200 were women. “Reports suggest that govt officials are meeting jawans in Sukma. I want to tell them that meeting jawans will not result in anything. Not one or two, but the government should send around 20-25 battalion for an operation against naxals”, he says. afp Ranting against the government, Mishra goes on to say, “Rajnath Singh is not proving to be a good minister. The CRPF is being killed brutally, the jawans are getting killed under your nose. These are the same CRPF jawans who give X,Y,Z grade security to ministers like Amit Shah.” Mishra says “We did not vote to the Bharatiya Janata Party, but we voted for Narendra Modi. People like Rajnath Singh are misleading Modi and not letting him make the right decision. Where were you (Rajnath Singh) when Paksitani army beheaded our jawans? Where were you when the Pathankot Air Base was attacked?” He says that Intelligence is the drawback and necessary action must be taken up to boost it. The Sukma attack left 25 CRPF jawans dead when a mammoth group of naxals ambushed them and launch a brutal attack.

A CRPF Jawan vented his frustration in a viral Facebook video after the recent Sukma attack. He claims to have lost a relative in the deadly naxal attack in Chhattisgarh on Monday.

He ranted against Home Minister Rajnath Singh.

The jawan, Pankaj Mishra, is posted in the 221 battalion of CRPF, stationed at Durgapur in West Bengal. He is the latest to join the list of men in uniform venting out against the government apathy.

In the video, Mishra says, “They should not forget that these CRPF jawans provide security to leaders like Amit Shah. We voted for Modi ji and not BJP, and leaders like Rajnath Singh are misleading the Prime Minister,” he said, requesting the Home Minister to meet the family members of slain soldiers.

The video has been shared 950 times and viewed over 35000 times so far. Mishra’s Facebook timeline reveals some graphic images of CRPF men committing suicide and shows them in distress.

He revealed that out of the Naxalites that attacked the CRPF jawans in Sukma, around 200 were women.

“Reports suggest that govt officials are meeting jawans in Sukma. I want to tell them that meeting jawans will not result in anything. Not one or two, but the government should send around 20-25 battalion for an operation against naxals”, he says.

afp

Ranting against the government, Mishra goes on to say, “Rajnath Singh is not proving to be a good minister. The CRPF is being killed brutally, the jawans are getting killed under your nose. These are the same CRPF jawans who give X,Y,Z grade security to ministers like Amit Shah.”

Mishra says “We did not vote to the Bharatiya Janata Party, but we voted for Narendra Modi. People like Rajnath Singh are misleading Modi and not letting him make the right decision. Where were you (Rajnath Singh) when Paksitani army beheaded our jawans? Where were you when the Pathankot Air Base was attacked?”

He says that Intelligence is the drawback and necessary action must be taken up to boost it.

The Sukma attack left 25 CRPF jawans dead when a mammoth group of naxals ambushed them and launch a brutal attack.