Ed Balls Day: How former Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls became Twitter's favourite politician
Ed Balls Day: How former Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls became Twitter's favourite politician
appy Ed Ball's Day! April 28th is the day we celebrate the anniversary of that time Ed Balls, former MP for Morley and Outwood, accidentally tweeted out his own name on Twitter. The origins of Ed Balls Day It was a Thursday, much like any other Thursday - Thursday 28 April 2011, to be precise. Ed Balls, then Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer, was browsing the aisles in the Castleford branch of Asda when an aide suggested he search for an article on Twitter which mentioned him. He began typing in his name into the 'compose tweet' field instead of the search box. An easy mistake to make, but one that would have huge (ish) ramifications. Mr Balls became distracted by a phone call, and accidentally hit 'send' on his Blackberry, thus tweeting his own name out into the ether. Ed Balls Why are we still talking about this? Because Twitter a stupid joke. A high-profile individual accidentally tweeting out his own name is hardly the most rib-ticklingly hilarious event ever to occur. The joy of Ed Balls Days comes from the intense scrutiny that's subsequently been given to this extremely minor incident, elevating it into something rather grand and unifying. It's a joke that anyone with a Twitter account can get involved with. The first time Mr Balls tweeted out his name it went viral, with hundreds of people retweeting it, making '"Ed Balls" the top trending topic in the UK. Then the next year, some bright spark decided to celebrate the anniversary of this very silly trending topic - and that's continued to happen every year since When you explain a joke doesn't that immediately kill it, rendering it entirely unfunny? d Balls. Just repeating something endlessly isn't funny, it's childish and stupid Many people would beg to differ. Just left my milk and cookies out for @EdBalls when he visits tonight! #EdBallsDay  pic.twitter.com/AV2hHLuk6v Hi @jeremycorbyn Could you please add #edballsday to the list of new bank holidays you're proposing. Thanks. Such an iconic British date. #EdBallsDAy Eve: I wonder whether the kids are old enough and we can just tell them Ed Balls doesn't exist and the presents come from us. Celebrate gamgnam style #edballsday  pic.twitter.com/GJBybTUTuE I suppose brands have been getting involved f course they have We've just taken delivery of our latest 7-Ed-7. #EdBallsDay  pic.twitter.com/9Kx7K0qoPC TwistED DoughBALLS. #EdBallsDay  pic.twitter.com/FwTWc82XHD Egg Balls pic.twitter.com/7U7zZitkZR . @edballs Presenting the traditional dish for #edballsday  pic.twitter.com/RLoqLy68c6 The excitement is building ahead of #EdBallsDay tomorrow. Here's @WillB2BContent 's take https://t.co/iZP6nlkiiJ  pic.twitter.com/scCKoRXgny More notable additions to the Ed Balls Day hilarity canon his tool will Ed Balls-ify whichever web page you happen to be on. Just drag the link into your bookmarks bar, click on any website and enjoy the Ed Balls effect. See also: Here is a poem which looks at the true significance of #EdBallsDay  It's called "Ed Balls". pic.twitter.com/LcMdhJ0NA7 Happy #EdBallsDay  pic.twitter.com/CkwT8Ddtem #EdBallsDay has become so commercialised. Shame really. pic.twitter.com/TT6qR7uzcU Been reminded by @pripley2426 of this special #EdBallsDay artwork I made in 2014. Man, that was a morning well spent pic.twitter.com/gIsfxslSzk The original #EdBallsDay was a Roman festival, in which jealous slaves would sneak into their masters' houses and steal their sestertii. Ed Balls. https://t.co/XX1xRPDY0h Good grief.. Oh go on then.. RT @edballsmp: Ed Balls

Happy Ed Ball's Day!

April 28th is the day we celebrate the anniversary of that time Ed Balls, former MP for Morley and Outwood, accidentally tweeted out his own name on Twitter.

The origins of Ed Balls Day

It was a Thursday, much like any other Thursday - Thursday 28 April 2011, to be precise. Ed Balls, then Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer, was browsing the aisles in the Castleford branch of Asda when an aide suggested he search for an article on Twitter which mentioned him.

He began typing in his name into the 'compose tweet' field instead of the search box. An easy mistake to make, but one that would have huge (ish) ramifications.

Mr Balls became distracted by a phone call, and accidentally hit 'send' on his Blackberry, thus tweeting his own name out into the ether.