This dad makes the most amazing Disney princess costumes for his daughter
This dad makes the most amazing Disney princess costumes for his daughter
This is one dad that's definitely making his daughter's fairytale dreams come true. Nephi Garcia, a father of three, is snipping and sewing his way to Instagram stardom , with incredible Disney costumes he makes for his kids. SEE ALSO: What Happens to Disney Princesses After 'Happily Ever After'? From Belle to Snow White, he's pretty much got them all covered. Image:  designerdaddy/instagram A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on His dresses don't just look incredible, they actually . Check out his version of Belle's village outfit, that with a rip, turns into the iconic yellow gown that she wears to dance with Beast. A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Whaaaaat. A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on He's done the same with Cinderella's blue ballgown. Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo! A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Nephi, who used to be a professional couture designer, gave up his job when he realised his career didn't allow for him to spend enough time with his family. However, he found renewed inspiration when his six-year-old daughter, Lilli, asked him to make her a costume for a trip to Disney World. He soon got people asking him to make costumes for them and their children — which he eventually started doing full-time. He's also pretty much gotten his whole family involved, including his wife and two sons. A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Garcia, who moved to the U.S. 14 years ago from the Philippines, credits his insane sewing abilities to his Filipino roots. "I remember my grandma teaching me how to use a sewing machine...when I was eleven I made my own pyjamas and stuff," he told news outlet ABS-CBN . A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on According to Garcia , each outfit can take anywhere between four and six hours of work, with the grown-up versions taking up to 48 hours of work. The kids' costumes retail at about $600, with the adult costumes coming in at around $1,800 — but hey, being a royal doesn't come cheap. WATCH: ‘Beauty and the Beast’ cast tell us their characters’ musical guilty pleasure

This is one dad that's definitely making his daughter's fairytale dreams come true.

Nephi Garcia, a father of three, is snipping and sewing his way to Instagram stardom, with incredible Disney costumes he makes for his kids.

From Belle to Snow White, he's pretty much got them all covered.

Image: designerdaddy/instagram

A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Jan 29, 2017 at 8:17pm PST

His dresses don't just look incredible, they actually transform. Check out his version of Belle's village outfit, that with a rip, turns into the iconic yellow gown that she wears to dance with Beast.

A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Jun 6, 2016 at 9:59am PDT

Whaaaaat.

A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Apr 27, 2017 at 12:06pm PDT

He's done the same with Cinderella's blue ballgown. Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo!

A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Apr 27, 2017 at 9:51pm PDT

Nephi, who used to be a professional couture designer, gave up his job when he realised his career didn't allow for him to spend enough time with his family.

However, he found renewed inspiration when his six-year-old daughter, Lilli, asked him to make her a costume for a trip to Disney World.

He soon got people asking him to make costumes for them and their children — which he eventually started doing full-time.

He's also pretty much gotten his whole family involved, including his wife and two sons.

A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Mar 5, 2017 at 4:11pm PST

Garcia, who moved to the U.S. 14 years ago from the Philippines, credits his insane sewing abilities to his Filipino roots.

"I remember my grandma teaching me how to use a sewing machine...when I was eleven I made my own pyjamas and stuff," he told news outlet ABS-CBN.

A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Mar 12, 2016 at 7:36pm PST

A post shared by Nephi Garcia (@designerdaddy_) on Jul 15, 2016 at 4:25pm PDT

According to Garcia, each outfit can take anywhere between four and six hours of work, with the grown-up versions taking up to 48 hours of work.

The kids' costumes retail at about $600, with the adult costumes coming in at around $1,800 — but hey, being a royal doesn't come cheap.