The BBC Kids and Their Parents Are Back, in a Cartoon
The BBC Kids and Their Parents Are Back, in a Cartoon
The young stars of the year’s funniest global home video have been transformed into a cartoon by a Brooklyn couple hoping that the precocious kids will be just as cute in two dimensions. The two children, Marion and James Kelly, who became a brief obsession for the internet-using world when they adorably interrupted their father’s BBC interview in March, are the inspiration for a new cartoon featuring their likenesses, as well as those of their parents, Robert E. Kelly and Kim Jeong-ah. The show, “The Adventures of Mina & Jack,” consists of only one short episode at the moment, though another is in the works. The characters’ names have been changed, but their images are unmistakable, and the episode features a brief tribute to the viral moment that brought it into being. So far, it can only be seen on YouTube, and no major (or minor) outlet has signed up to distribute it. Marion became a favorite of viewers the world over when she strolled into the room where her father, fated to be known forever after as the “BBC Dad,” was conducting an interview about South Korean politics. She was closely trailed by her infant brother, who was in a walker. Mr. Kelly chose to continue the interview; at the end of the clip, his wife dashes in, sliding across the floor and almost falling in her effort to remove the kids from the room. Lauren Martin, who used to write for Elite Daily and is now a producer who helps create content at Complex, pronounced herself “obsessed” with the clip in an interview on Thursday, saying that she thought she had watched the video “like 100 times.” Advertisement “I just love Marion,” Ms. Martin, 26, said. “I just love her.” She and her boyfriend, Jarryd Mandy, who live in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, decided that the world needed more of the Kelly kids. Originally they had planned to write a children’s book, but decided the project would be better as a cartoon. The couple contracted a studio, Raxo, to make a pilot episode. Here it is. The Williamsburg couple decided not to seek the family’s blessing before they had a finished product, and sent the first cartoon to Mr. Kelly with bated breath. Advertisement But he declared himself a fan, even retweeting the video from his Twitter account, amid posts about French politics, the South Korean election and the nuclear threat posed by North Korea. People keep asking me about our children - thank u for ur kindness - so for the many who follow me bc of them, you might enjoy this video https://t.co/jviUupSENx  Mr. Kelly and his family are still using Skype, as he was when the original interview mishap took place. They used the platform to talk to the Brooklyn couple on Wednesday night, Ms. Martin said. Mr. Kelly is now officially a consultant for the cartoon, and the family will have some creative control. Advertisement If the show manages to make money, Ms. Martin said, the Kellys will also receive some of the royalties, though she admitted “we haven’t really gotten that far.” Mina and Jack, the names for the Marion and James characters in the cartoon, have so far only had one adventure in “North Africa,” where they accompanied their father and helped foil a gold thief. Marion is the star of the show; James is her sidekick and her father is portrayed as a clumsy but lovable idiot. Advertisement The pilot lasts just over three minutes. Ms. Martin said that she and Mr. Mandy have spent a significant amount of their savings on the second episode. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

The young stars of the year’s funniest global home video have been transformed into a cartoon by a Brooklyn couple hoping that the precocious kids will be just as cute in two dimensions.

The two children, Marion and James Kelly, who became a brief obsession for the internet-using world when they adorably interrupted their father’s BBC interview in March, are the inspiration for a new cartoon featuring their likenesses, as well as those of their parents, Robert E. Kelly and Kim Jeong-ah.

The show, “The Adventures of Mina & Jack,” consists of only one short episode at the moment, though another is in the works. The characters’ names have been changed, but their images are unmistakable, and the episode features a brief tribute to the viral moment that brought it into being. So far, it can only be seen on YouTube, and no major (or minor) outlet has signed up to distribute it.

Marion became a favorite of viewers the world over when she strolled into the room where her father, fated to be known forever after as the “BBC Dad,” was conducting an interview about South Korean politics. She was closely trailed by her infant brother, who was in a walker. Mr. Kelly chose to continue the interview; at the end of the clip, his wife dashes in, sliding across the floor and almost falling in her effort to remove the kids from the room.

Lauren Martin, who used to write for Elite Daily and is now a producer who helps create content at Complex, pronounced herself “obsessed” with the clip in an interview on Thursday, saying that she thought she had watched the video “like 100 times.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“I just love Marion,” Ms. Martin, 26, said. “I just love her.”

She and her boyfriend, Jarryd Mandy, who live in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, decided that the world needed more of the Kelly kids. Originally they had planned to write a children’s book, but decided the project would be better as a cartoon. The couple contracted a studio, Raxo, to make a pilot episode. Here it is.

The Williamsburg couple decided not to seek the family’s blessing before they had a finished product, and sent the first cartoon to Mr. Kelly with bated breath.