Woman in 60s injured in Stockholm terror truck attack dies
Woman in 60s who was injured in Stockholm terror truck attack dies


A woman in her 60s who was injured in the April 7 terror truck attack in Stockholm has died, raising the death toll to five.

Stockholm police said the woman, who has not been publicly identified, had been in hospital in southern Sweden.

A 39-year-old Uzbek man, Rakhmat Akilov, has pleaded guilty to a terrorist crime for ramming a truck into a crowd on a main pedestrian shopping street in the Swedish capital.

Scroll down for video

A woman in her 60s - a victim of the Stockholm terror truck attack on April 7 - had died of her injuries. The attack unleashed a wave of mourning across the Scandinavian nation

Police have not disclosed a motive for the attack and no extremist group has claimed responsibility for it.

Akilov's Swedish residency application was rejected last year but police said there was nothing to indicate he might plan an attack.

After the rejection, Akilov had been been ordered to leave Sweden in December.

Instead, he allegedly went underground, eluding authorities' attempts to track him down.

Rakhmat Akilov pleaded guilty to the terrorist crime of ramming a truck (pictured above alongside Swedish police officer) into a crowd on a main pedestrian shopping street in the Swedish capital

Chris Bevington (pictured left) was killed in the Stockholm terror attack. Uzbek national Rakhmat Akilov (right) pleaded guilty to a terrorist crime after five people were killed in the busy shopping street

Other victims of the attack include an 11-year-old Swedish girl, a 31-year-old Belgian woman, and a 69-year-old Swedish woman. Above, a woman lays flowers in Stockholm on April 10

Akilov was caught in a northern suburb of Stockholm, hours after he drove the stolen beer truck into the crowd of afternoon shoppers outside the upmarket Ahlens store.

Other victims of attack were an 11-year-old Swedish girl, a 31-year-old Belgian woman, a 69-year-old Swedish woman, and a 41-year-old Briton whom the British government identified as Chris Bevington.

Fourteen others were injured in the attack.

Fourteen other people were injured in the attack, which shocked Sweden - a country known for its welcoming policy toward migrants and refugees

The attack had shocked Sweden, known for its welcoming policy toward migrants and refugees.

In 2015, a record 163,000 asylum-seekers arrived in the country - the highest per-capita rate in Europe.

The government responded by tightening border controls and curtailing some immigrant rights.