Katy Brand: ‘Victoria Wood's Two Soups is the funniest sketch ever’

Simon Munnery’s The League Against Tedium in Edinburgh in the late 1990s. I had never seen anything like it; I became almost hysterical with laughter which he probably found off-putting. He appeared to give no shits whether the audience liked it or not, and I loved that. Two Soups by Victoria Wood , performed by Julie Walters, is a masterpiece. And a masterclass. Sketches are so hard to write – I never could write decent endings to mine – and this is just a symphony of simplicity. Katherine Parkinson, who I’ve known for 20 years. Still funny, after all these years. “Get it together, woman!”, bellowed at me by an exasperated, posh old man when I was performing a character called the Bad Nun; the whole act is me, dressed as a nun, not being able to say the Lord’s Prayer because I keep getting the giggles. I don’t think he got it. Toddlers being rude and naughty, and then being told off and having a tantrum. You’re not supposed to laugh because it “undermines the discipline” but that just makes it worse. Three Men in a Boat by Jerome K Jerome . Closely followed by I, Partridge: We Need to Talk About Alan. Lisa Kudrow’s The Comeback by is so brilliant, so meticulously observed, so skilful and deft, it makes me ache a bit. It is the best TV satire on the entertainment world ever made. Large yellow wooden clogs. I wore them to walk up and down the road for a dare when I was about 15, with long brown socks, a dressing gown and a sequinned turban. It still makes me laugh.  Comedy   The funniest thing   Comedy
(Culture)   features

The comedian and sketch-show doyenne on the things that make her laugh the most

The funniest standup I’ve ever seen

Simon Munnery’s The League Against Tedium in Edinburgh in the late 1990s. I had never seen anything like it; I became almost hysterical with laughter which he probably found off-putting. He appeared to give no shits whether the audience liked it or not, and I loved that.

The funniest sketch I’ve ever seen

Two Soups by Victoria Wood, performed by Julie Walters, is a masterpiece. And a masterclass. Sketches are so hard to write – I never could write decent endings to mine – and this is just a symphony of simplicity.

The funniest person I know

Katherine Parkinson, who I’ve known for 20 years. Still funny, after all these years.



The funniest heckle I’ve ever had

“Get it together, woman!”, bellowed at me by an exasperated, posh old man when I was performing a character called the Bad Nun; the whole act is me, dressed as a nun, not being able to say the Lord’s Prayer because I keep getting the giggles. I don’t think he got it.

The funniest thing that shouldn’t be funny

Toddlers being rude and naughty, and then being told off and having a tantrum. You’re not supposed to laugh because it “undermines the discipline” but that just makes it worse.

The funniest book I’ve ever read

Three Men in a Boat by Jerome K Jerome. Closely followed by I, Partridge: We Need to Talk About Alan.

The funniest TV show I’ve ever seen

Lisa Kudrow’s The Comeback by is so brilliant, so meticulously observed, so skilful and deft, it makes me ache a bit. It is the best TV satire on the entertainment world ever made.



The funniest item of clothing I’ve ever owned

Large yellow wooden clogs. I wore them to walk up and down the road for a dare when I was about 15, with long brown socks, a dressing gown and a sequinned turban. It still makes me laugh.

Katy Brand: I Was A Teenage Christian is touring 2 May to 24 June