House passes bill to temporarily avert shutdown
House passes bill to temporarily avert shutdown
Shares               The House approved a short-term measure Friday to keep the government funded for another week, a move that would give lawmakers more time to reach a deal on a larger spending package. The measures now heads to the Senate for approval. The move comes as the House prepares to leave Washington without a vote on the GOP health care bill, denying President Trump a major legislative victory in his first 100 days in office. The end of the frenzied week on Capitol Hill underscores the trouble Republicans have had fulfilling both the most basic functions of governance and implementing their ambitious agenda with GOP control of both the White House and Congress.       “One hundred days of broken promises,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi , D-Calif., quipped Friday morning. Democrats, who have railed against GOP efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare , had threatened to vote against the continuing resolution to fund the government should Republicans move forward on health care, in an effort to pressure the majority. On Thursday, House Speaker Paul Ryan dismissed the threat, predicting Democrats would be blamed for a partial government shutdown . Appropriators are finalizing a $1 trillion-plus spending deal, and negotiations continue over natural disaster response funding and funds to address Puerto Rico’s debt crisis. The measure is expected to contain funds for border security technology, but not funding for the construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, which Trump had initially demanded Congress include in the bill. Shares                  House passes bill to temporarily avert shutdown   Trump says he thought being president 'would be easier'   Trump is first president to address NRA in 34 years   The Note: Trump marks a milestone   On Flynn, AG Sessions says vetting can't 'catch everything'   Trump won't see health care vote in first 100 days   Trump: 'If there's a shutdown, there's a shutdown'   Where are they now: 2016 campaign edition   ANALYSIS: Trump's Twitter use brings risks and rewards   99 days of Twitter: A timeline of President Trump's tweets   ANALYSIS: Facts and figures behind 99 days of President Trump's tweets   Trump was 'psyched to terminate NAFTA' but reconsidered   Pope Francis visits Egypt just weeks after attacks on Coptic churches   Bride gets kidney transplant days before wedding: 'It saved my life'   Teaching acceptance of all people, 1 video at a time   2 people who've been pen pals for 42 years meet for the 1st time   Mom and 6 sons cut their hair, donate it to kids in need   SeaWorld welcomes unexpected sea lion pup amid care for sick mother   600-year-old tree that witnessed history taken down   Reebok trolls $425 'muddy' jeans with fake $425 sweaty T-shirt   Neanderthals in California? Maybe so, provocative study says   High school student athlete surprised with full college scholarship

The House approved a short-term measure Friday to keep the government funded for another week, a move that would give lawmakers more time to reach a deal on a larger spending package.

The measures now heads to the Senate for approval.

The move comes as the House prepares to leave Washington without a vote on the GOP health care bill, denying President Trump a major legislative victory in his first 100 days in office.

The end of the frenzied week on Capitol Hill underscores the trouble Republicans have had fulfilling both the most basic functions of governance and implementing their ambitious agenda with GOP control of both the White House and Congress.

“One hundred days of broken promises,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., quipped Friday morning.

Democrats, who have railed against GOP efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare, had threatened to vote against the continuing resolution to fund the government should Republicans move forward on health care, in an effort to pressure the majority.

On Thursday, House Speaker Paul Ryan dismissed the threat, predicting Democrats would be blamed for a partial government shutdown.

Appropriators are finalizing a $1 trillion-plus spending deal, and negotiations continue over natural disaster response funding and funds to address Puerto Rico’s debt crisis.

The measure is expected to contain funds for border security technology, but not funding for the construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, which Trump had initially demanded Congress include in the bill.