Mumbai Model Preeti Jain Gets Convicted For Plotting Filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar's Murder
Mumbai Model Preeti Jain Gets Convicted For Plotting Filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar's Murder
Mumbai Model Preeti Jain Gets Convicted For Plotting Filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar's Murder Mumbai-based model Preeti Jain has been sentenced to three years in jail for plotting to kill film-maker Madhur Bhandarkar. The city civil and sessions court has convicted model Preeti Jain and a fine of Rs 10,000 has been levied on her for plotting the murder. The court has also sentenced two of her associates – Naresh Pardeshi and Shivram Das to three years in jail for being a part of the murder conspiracy, aiding and abetting the crime. Jain had earlier registered a rape case against the filmmaker. Reports claim that Preeti Jain approached Pardeshi to plot a murder Bhandarkar and allegedly paid Rs75,000 for the job. And since Pardeshi could not complete the job, she kept hounding him for returning the money. This issue was then escalated to underworld don Arun Gawli, but his lawyer alerted the police. After a week-long probe, the police registered a case on September 10, 2005, and Pardesi was arrested the same day. The police also arrested Pardeshi’s friend Shivram Das, who was allegedly helping him arrange for weapons and shooters. The trial had first begun in the fast-track court in Sewree but was later transferred to the sessions court. Preeti Jain was arrested in 2005 for hiring a contract killer to murder Bhandarkar. But today, Mumbai Court sentenced actress Preeti Jain to three-year imprisonment on charges of conspiring to get film director Madhur Bhandarkar killed. And the Supreme Court also smashed the rape charges against Bhandarkar. Two including actor Preeti Jain sentenced to three years imprisonment by a Mumbai court, one gets two years jail She was found guilty of conspiracy, aiding and abetting the crime and Madhur on the other hand is free from all charges.

Mumbai-based model Preeti Jain has been sentenced to three years in jail for plotting to kill film-maker Madhur Bhandarkar. The city civil and sessions court has convicted model Preeti Jain and a fine of Rs 10,000 has been levied on her for plotting the murder.

The court has also sentenced two of her associates – Naresh Pardeshi and Shivram Das to three years in jail for being a part of the murder conspiracy, aiding and abetting the crime.

Jain had earlier registered a rape case against the filmmaker. Reports claim that Preeti Jain approached Pardeshi to plot a murder Bhandarkar and allegedly paid Rs75,000 for the job. And since Pardeshi could not complete the job, she kept hounding him for returning the money.

NetTV4U

This issue was then escalated to underworld don Arun Gawli, but his lawyer alerted the police. After a week-long probe, the police registered a case on September 10, 2005, and Pardesi was arrested the same day. The police also arrested Pardeshi’s friend Shivram Das, who was allegedly helping him arrange for weapons and shooters. The trial had first begun in the fast-track court in Sewree but was later transferred to the sessions court.

Preeti Jain was arrested in 2005 for hiring a contract killer to murder Bhandarkar.

But today, Mumbai Court sentenced actress Preeti Jain to three-year imprisonment on charges of conspiring to get film director Madhur Bhandarkar killed. And the Supreme Court also smashed the rape charges against Bhandarkar.

Two including actor Preeti Jain sentenced to three years imprisonment by a Mumbai court, one gets two years jail — ANI (@ANI_news) April 28, 2017

She was found guilty of conspiracy, aiding and abetting the crime and Madhur on the other hand is free from all charges.

Don't Miss 36.2 K SHARES 29.3 K SHARES 44 K SHARES 43.4 K SHARES 12.4 K SHARES