Pareidolia makes people see faces in random objects
What can YOU see? Hilarious photos show faces in random objects


If you've ever done a double take while frying an egg because you're convinced there's a ghost staring back at you from the pan, you've experienced what's known as pareidolia.

It's a psychological phenomenon in which you see patterns where they don't exist, the most famous of which has to be seeing the face of Jesus in a slice of toast.

Now people who have spotted faces in unusual objects have shared their photos with Bored Panda and many are so incredibly lifelike that they seem to show human emotion.

An upside down rusty old bath looks sad, a pair of slippers appear angry and a snowy chair looks extremely happy.

One snap shows a palm tree that looks like The Simpsons character Sideshow Bob, while an olive in a cocktail even manages to look like somebody being sick.

What are the chances? A bird left a messa on a car window and it looks exactly like the head of a pigeon

Cooking up a spectre! Someone was met with a rather ghostly sight while making breakfast

Always an adventurer: A cactus was spotted attempting to rock climb in the hot weather

Orange goddess: A woman's voluptuous body was spotted in the heart of of a piece of fruit

Don't leave me: A bright pink suitcase looked sad at being seemingly abandoned on the stairs

My eyes! A wall attachment looked terrified at the prospect of being hit with a hammer

Under the stars: A cup of coffee's froth looks distinctly like Snoopy the dog sitting beneath the moon

Seeing double! This Dachshund was alarmed to spots its own likeness in the floorboards

This picture hook appeared to be making a rather rude gesture to the camera

Lift me up: A rusty bathtub appears to be calling out and asking to be turned the right way around

Feeling happy: With such a pretty view to look at, this snow-covered chair understandably feels fantastic

You've got company! The reflections of these tortoises creates the optical illusion of two bearded men

Too many martinis: One olive took their drinking a little too far and is now facing the repercussions

Devastated delta! The Mississippi River appears to be in pain at having to keep its mouth open

Scowling: These slippers might look soft but their menacing laces make them appear angry

Hellephant: As firefighters attempt to tackle a blaze, an menacing elephant appears

The Simpsons: With its unmistakable hair style, this palm tree looks like Sideshow Bob