NFL Draft 2017: The 20 best remaining players for Round 2

7 Cook has taken his share of body blows throughout the draft process. It was revealed he had three shoulder surgeries before heading to the combine. He didn’t test exceptionally well in Indianapolis, running slower than many expected. Yet, his game tape proved he’s the most natural and dangerous running back on the board. Is the lack of long speed a major issue? Ask Emmitt Smith, the NFL’s all-time leading rusher who was considered slow by some before the 1990 draft. How did that turn out? Cook will eventually be a star, if he’s healthy. Latest draft news, rumors and analysis  Draft history: Who are the best/worst-drafting teams  Top needs for every AFC team | NFC  8 McDowell did not receive rave reviews at the combine after his media session and team interviews. After listening to his answers to difficult questions on media day, it spoke volumes about his inflexibility on the field and coachability. He has the potential to be a dominant presence on the field, but he didn’t leave many with a great first impression.  14 I was so impressed with Jones that I moved him into my top 15 a few days before his pro day — where he tore his Achilles. It appeared his stock would plummet but I’m not wavering. I ranked him at No. 14 based on the full package, not the injury, but where he falls in this draft is anyone’s guess. I hope a team takes a chance on him because he’s more than worthy of a first-round pick when healthy.    27 One of the strangest situations at the combine involved Lamp and his arm length. His arms were measured one inch longer at the combine than at the Senior Bowl. The difference might be enough for some team to consider keeping Lamp at tackle when everyone left the Senior Bowl thinking he was definitely a guard. There is no argument about Lamp’s impressive athleticism. He posted position bests in four of six events for offensive linemen, including 34 bench press reps.    28 He doesn’t look the part of an inside linebacker. He’s long. He’s rangy. He’s tall. Then the ball’s snapped and it’s clear why he’s one of the best in the nation. His athleticism is off the charts and he proved that at the combine. The 6-3, 234-pound Cunningham posted a 4.67 in the 40, a 35-inch vertical jump and a 10-foot-5 broad jump. From an athletic standpoint, there are minimal issues.  30 When it comes to height, weight and speed prospects, Melifonwu is front and center. He blew away the combine. He measured 6-4, 224 pounds, then ran a 4.44 40, posted an astounding 44-inch vertical jump and a 11-9 inch broad jump. Plenty of scouts and personnel people went back to the film room to make sure his athletic gifts showed in his play on the field.  34 Typically, it doesn’t matter what numbers offensive linemen post at the combine, other than bench press. As long as they don’t run a Rich Eisen-like 40, they’ll be fine. The 6-6, 322-pound Robinson impressed with a 5.15 in the 40, a phenomenal time for his size. That was certainly the highlight for Robinson during his testing session and left scouts with a positive impression.  36 There was hope that Kizer would shine during his throwing session to provide a little more clarity to his draft slot. Unfortunately, he was all over the place, sort of like his 2016 season. He was inconsistent throwing the football to receivers he didn’t know. His mechanics and his feet were more than a little askew. Apparently, he threw much better at his pro day in late March, but the results have certainly been mixed.  37 Explosiveness describes Kamara’s testing at the combine. He posted an eye-popping 39.5-inch vertical jump and a 10-foot-11 broad jump and posted a satisfactory 4.56 in the 40. Overall, no real concerns were noted regarding his physical ability, but he didn’t create the buzz other top running backs did.  39 Williams was able to put pressure on college tackles with an explosive first step and blazing speed, so the expectations were high entering the combine. Like McKinley, he had a tough time reaching them. He ran a 4.68 in the 40, as slow as any other edge rusher at the combine. That pedestrian time, combined with average testing, raised some concerns. He looked much more comfortable, and in his element, when performing position drills on the field, which alleviated a little bit of the concern.  41 If the general scouting populace was unaware of Awuzie entering the combine, he certainly got their attention. He ran a 4.43 40 at 202 pounds, posted a 11-foot broad jump and registered two excellent change-of-direction drill times. Awuzie got some first-round consideration and should start immediately at nickel corner for his future NFL team.  42 Overshadowed throughout his career by teammate Sidney Jones, King carved out his own niche in 2016. With his speed, length and change-of-direction ability, he should stay at cornerback going forward, although there’s a consideration to return to safety in the future. King’s stock has risen throughout the entire draft process and his combine performance will certainly create more buzz. The 6-3, 200-pounder ran a 4.43 in the 40, eighth best among all defensive backs, He posted a 6.56 three-cone and a 3.89 short shuttle, proving he has the ability to change directions as a taller cornerback. His one-handed interception against Arizona State was one to remember.  43 Moreau completely crushed the combine and put himself in first-round consideration. Unfortunately, he tore a pectoral muscle at his pro day. At the combine, he destroyed the 40, running a 4.35 at 6-foot, 206 pounds. He posted a 38-inch vertical jump and a 11-foot-4 broad jump. He didn’t bench at the combine, planning to do so at his pro day, and that’s how he apparently tore his pectoral muscle. His career was marred by injuries and that history may be why he was left on the board Thursday night.  44 Feeney is a technician who gets little credit for how truly dominating he can be at the point of attack. He started nearly his entire career at guard but, for the last five games of the 2016 season, he moved out to right tackle when injuries struck the Hoosiers’ offensive line. He was arguably the best lineman at the Senior Bowl and is the best interior lineman in this draft class.  45 Samuel smoked his 40, posting an official 4.31, third-fastest overall at the combine. In addition, he posted a 37-inch vertical jump. That was enough to show how dynamic and explosive he is. One team must now figure out how to best utilize him going forward, tough though that may be.  46 Evans decided to not test at the combine, choosing to work out at his pro day on March 29 in College Station. He did bench press 14 reps. It was a bit perplexing he didn’t test, unless there was an undisclosed injury. He also missed the Senior Bowl after practicing throughout the week.  47 Lawson is known for his explosive rushing ability off the edge, so it was a bit of a surprise when he registered a combine-high 35 bench press reps. What was not as surprising was his 4.19-second short shuttle time. Lawson assured teams he has what they crave in an edge rusher — power and speed. Consider those boxes checked.  48 The 40 was thought to be the death knell for a former Gator cornerback selected in 2010 — Joe Haden. He responded by running well at his pro day and became an all-pro cornerback for the Cleveland Browns. At the combine, Tabor ran a pedestrian 4.62, which was nearly 0.3 seconds slower than first-round prospect Marshon Lattimore. He benched 225 pounds only nine times, which was concerning. It was a rough weekend that certainly impacted his draft stock.  49 Most teams knew Anderson wouldn’t shine in a format like the combine, as he’s not that type of athlete. He ran a 4.78 40-yard dash, which wasn’t surprising, but a bit frustrating, for those that might pound the table for him early in the draft. He ran a 4.75 at his pro day in Tuscaloosa, so it wasn’t much better but, again, not unexpected. That lack of freakish athleticism will be an issue for some teams, but his football IQ and versatility make up for what he lacks from a pure athletic standpoint.  50 At the combine, Wilson outshone his former Gator teammate Tabor. At 6-1, 211 pounds, Wilson ran a 4.54 40 then posted a top-10 time in the short shuttle drill — 4.02 seconds. He also posted a sub-7 second three-cone drill, proving he has above-average change of direction for a big corner.



Florida State running back Dalvin Cook is still available. (Phelan M. Ebenhack/AP)

Plenty of talent remains on the draft board. Below, Post draft analyst John Harris details his best remaining players (with their Top 50 ranking) for Day 2 and beyond. Six of his top 32 players overall are still there for the taking. Who will snap them up Friday?

1. Dalvin Cook, RB, Florida State

Top 50 Rank: 7

Cook has taken his share of body blows throughout the draft process. It was revealed he had three shoulder surgeries before heading to the combine. He didn’t test exceptionally well in Indianapolis, running slower than many expected. Yet, his game tape proved he’s the most natural and dangerous running back on the board. Is the lack of long speed a major issue? Ask Emmitt Smith, the NFL’s all-time leading rusher who was considered slow by some before the 1990 draft. How did that turn out? Cook will eventually be a star, if he’s healthy.

The NFL draft on The Washington Post

Latest draft news, rumors and analysis

Draft history: Who are the best/worst-drafting teams

Top needs for every AFC team | NFC

2. Malik McDowell, DT/DE, Michigan State

Top 50 Rank: 8

McDowell did not receive rave reviews at the combine after his media session and team interviews. After listening to his answers to difficult questions on media day, it spoke volumes about his inflexibility on the field and coachability. He has the potential to be a dominant presence on the field, but he didn’t leave many with a great first impression.

3. Sidney Jones, CB, Washington

Top 50 Rank: 14

I was so impressed with Jones that I moved him into my top 15 a few days before his pro day — where he tore his Achilles. It appeared his stock would plummet but I’m not wavering. I ranked him at No. 14 based on the full package, not the injury, but where he falls in this draft is anyone’s guess. I hope a team takes a chance on him because he’s more than worthy of a first-round pick when healthy.

[Round 1 analysis: When will the Browns draft a quarterback?]

4. Forrest Lamp, OG/OT, Western Kentucky

Top 50 Rank: 27

One of the strangest situations at the combine involved Lamp and his arm length. His arms were measured one inch longer at the combine than at the Senior Bowl. The difference might be enough for some team to consider keeping Lamp at tackle when everyone left the Senior Bowl thinking he was definitely a guard. There is no argument about Lamp’s impressive athleticism. He posted position bests in four of six events for offensive linemen, including 34 bench press reps.

[Redskins get a steal at No. 17]

5. Zach Cunningham, ILB, Vanderbilt

Top 50 Rank: 28

He doesn’t look the part of an inside linebacker. He’s long. He’s rangy. He’s tall. Then the ball’s snapped and it’s clear why he’s one of the best in the nation. His athleticism is off the charts and he proved that at the combine. The 6-3, 234-pound Cunningham posted a 4.67 in the 40, a 35-inch vertical jump and a 10-foot-5 broad jump. From an athletic standpoint, there are minimal issues.

6. Obi Melifonwu, S/CB, Connecticut

Top 50 Rank: 30

When it comes to height, weight and speed prospects, Melifonwu is front and center. He blew away the combine. He measured 6-4, 224 pounds, then ran a 4.44 40, posted an astounding 44-inch vertical jump and a 11-9 inch broad jump. Plenty of scouts and personnel people went back to the film room to make sure his athletic gifts showed in his play on the field.

7. Cam Robinson, OT, Alabama

Top 50 Rank: 34

Typically, it doesn’t matter what numbers offensive linemen post at the combine, other than bench press. As long as they don’t run a Rich Eisen-like 40, they’ll be fine. The 6-6, 322-pound Robinson impressed with a 5.15 in the 40, a phenomenal time for his size. That was certainly the highlight for Robinson during his testing session and left scouts with a positive impression.



DeShone Kizer is the top remaining quarterback on the draft board. (Mark J. Terrill/AP)

8. DeShone Kizer, QB, Notre Dame

Top 50 Rank: 36

There was hope that Kizer would shine during his throwing session to provide a little more clarity to his draft slot. Unfortunately, he was all over the place, sort of like his 2016 season. He was inconsistent throwing the football to receivers he didn’t know. His mechanics and his feet were more than a little askew. Apparently, he threw much better at his pro day in late March, but the results have certainly been mixed.

9. Alvin Kamara, RB, Tennessee

Top 50 Rank: 37

Explosiveness describes Kamara’s testing at the combine. He posted an eye-popping 39.5-inch vertical jump and a 10-foot-11 broad jump and posted a satisfactory 4.56 in the 40. Overall, no real concerns were noted regarding his physical ability, but he didn’t create the buzz other top running backs did.

10. Tim Williams, OLB, Alabama

Top 50 Rank: 39

Williams was able to put pressure on college tackles with an explosive first step and blazing speed, so the expectations were high entering the combine. Like McKinley, he had a tough time reaching them. He ran a 4.68 in the 40, as slow as any other edge rusher at the combine. That pedestrian time, combined with average testing, raised some concerns. He looked much more comfortable, and in his element, when performing position drills on the field, which alleviated a little bit of the concern.

11. Chidobe Awuzie, CB/nickelback, Colorado

Top 50 Rank: 41

If the general scouting populace was unaware of Awuzie entering the combine, he certainly got their attention. He ran a 4.43 40 at 202 pounds, posted a 11-foot broad jump and registered two excellent change-of-direction drill times. Awuzie got some first-round consideration and should start immediately at nickel corner for his future NFL team.

12. Kevin King, CB, Washington

Top 50 Rank: 42

Overshadowed throughout his career by teammate Sidney Jones, King carved out his own niche in 2016. With his speed, length and change-of-direction ability, he should stay at cornerback going forward, although there’s a consideration to return to safety in the future. King’s stock has risen throughout the entire draft process and his combine performance will certainly create more buzz. The 6-3, 200-pounder ran a 4.43 in the 40, eighth best among all defensive backs, He posted a 6.56 three-cone and a 3.89 short shuttle, proving he has the ability to change directions as a taller cornerback. His one-handed interception against Arizona State was one to remember.

13. Fabien Moreau, CB, UCLA

Top 50 Rank: 43

Moreau completely crushed the combine and put himself in first-round consideration. Unfortunately, he tore a pectoral muscle at his pro day. At the combine, he destroyed the 40, running a 4.35 at 6-foot, 206 pounds. He posted a 38-inch vertical jump and a 11-foot-4 broad jump. He didn’t bench at the combine, planning to do so at his pro day, and that’s how he apparently tore his pectoral muscle. His career was marred by injuries and that history may be why he was left on the board Thursday night.

14. Dan Feeney, OG, Indiana

Top 50 Rank: 44

Feeney is a technician who gets little credit for how truly dominating he can be at the point of attack. He started nearly his entire career at guard but, for the last five games of the 2016 season, he moved out to right tackle when injuries struck the Hoosiers’ offensive line. He was arguably the best lineman at the Senior Bowl and is the best interior lineman in this draft class.

15. Curtis Samuel, WR/RB/?, Ohio State

Top 50 Rank: 45

Samuel smoked his 40, posting an official 4.31, third-fastest overall at the combine. In addition, he posted a 37-inch vertical jump. That was enough to show how dynamic and explosive he is. One team must now figure out how to best utilize him going forward, tough though that may be.

16. Justin Evans, S, Texas A&M

Top 50 Rank: 46

Evans decided to not test at the combine, choosing to work out at his pro day on March 29 in College Station. He did bench press 14 reps. It was a bit perplexing he didn’t test, unless there was an undisclosed injury. He also missed the Senior Bowl after practicing throughout the week.

17. Carl Lawson, DE/OLB, Auburn

Top 50 Rank: 47

Lawson is known for his explosive rushing ability off the edge, so it was a bit of a surprise when he registered a combine-high 35 bench press reps. What was not as surprising was his 4.19-second short shuttle time. Lawson assured teams he has what they crave in an edge rusher — power and speed. Consider those boxes checked.

18. Teez Tabor, CB, Florida

Top 50 Rank: 48

The 40 was thought to be the death knell for a former Gator cornerback selected in 2010 — Joe Haden. He responded by running well at his pro day and became an all-pro cornerback for the Cleveland Browns. At the combine, Tabor ran a pedestrian 4.62, which was nearly 0.3 seconds slower than first-round prospect Marshon Lattimore. He benched 225 pounds only nine times, which was concerning. It was a rough weekend that certainly impacted his draft stock.

19. Ryan Anderson, OLB, Alabama

Top 50 Rank: 49

Most teams knew Anderson wouldn’t shine in a format like the combine, as he’s not that type of athlete. He ran a 4.78 40-yard dash, which wasn’t surprising, but a bit frustrating, for those that might pound the table for him early in the draft. He ran a 4.75 at his pro day in Tuscaloosa, so it wasn’t much better but, again, not unexpected. That lack of freakish athleticism will be an issue for some teams, but his football IQ and versatility make up for what he lacks from a pure athletic standpoint.

20. Quincy Wilson, CB/S, Florida

Top 50 Rank: 50

At the combine, Wilson outshone his former Gator teammate Tabor. At 6-1, 211 pounds, Wilson ran a 4.54 40 then posted a top-10 time in the short shuttle drill — 4.02 seconds. He also posted a sub-7 second three-cone drill, proving he has above-average change of direction for a big corner.

John Harris contributes to The Washington Post’s NFL draft coverage. He is the sideline reporter and football analyst for the Houston Texans and owner of footballtakeover.com.