British police shoot woman, arrest six suspects in counter-terrorism raids



British police shoot woman, arrest six suspects in counter-terrorism raids

Posted

British counter-terrorism police say they have thwarted an active plot with raids in London and south-eastern England, which saw one woman shot and six people arrested.

Key points London police say the injured woman is the subject of an ongoing investigation

Operation is not connected with earlier arrest of a man found with knives in Westminster

Police believe the terror threat that the suspects had posed has now been contained

Britain's official threat level remains at 'severe', meaning an attack is highly likely

Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Neil Basu said officers stormed a house in the Willesden area of the capital on Thursday evening (local time), shooting a woman in her 20s.

She was said to be in a serious but stable condition in hospital.

Asked if police had foiled an active plot, Mr Basu replied: "Yes".

He said six people had been arrested in the Willesden security operation, five at the house, and another in Kent, in south-east England.

The woman injured was the subject of an ongoing investigation and was under police guard, but had not been arrested because of her condition, he said.

In a separate incident only hours earlier, a man was arrested carrying at least three knives near Prime Minister Theresa May's office in Westminster during a stop-and-search operation by armed counter-terrorism police.

The 27-year-old, who was being monitored by British intelligence agents and police, remains in custody.

"Due to these arrests that we have made, I believe that we have contained the threats that they posed," Mr Basu said.

Both incidents occurred just over a month after the March 22 attack on Parliament and Westminster Bridge, which claimed the lives of one police officer and four pedestrians.

Britain's official threat level from international terrorism stands at the second-highest, meaning an attack is highly likely.

Senior officers said the security services had thwarted 13 terrorism attempts in the last four years shortly before the deadly Westminster Bridge incident.

"Activity continues around the clock to identify and stop these threats and we are making arrests on a near daily basis," Mr Basu said.

Officials have warned of a potential uptick in attacks as some Britons who have joined the Islamic State group return home as militants lose territory in Syria and Iraq.

Reuters/AP

Topics: terrorism, law-crime-and-justice, police, united-kingdom