A Retired School Principal From Ahmedabad Now Sells Books On The Footpath. Here's Why
A Retired School Principal From Ahmedabad Now Sells Books On The Footpath. Here's Why
A Retired School Principal From Ahmedabad Now Sells Books On The Footpath. Here's Why One may not even notice Shaikh Mohammad Hussain Noor Mohammad standing in a corner near Sanyas Ashram on Ashram Road, Ahmedabad. But the nerds of the city know him very well. People from the nook and corner of the city come here asking for Shaikh Mohammad. Let us tell you, the man selling books on footpath is no ordinary man. He is a retired principal of Modern School, Dhandhuka district. His parents were illiterate and he had his own share of struggles in childhood. This is his gesture to pay debt to the books that helped him grow and achieve success. Today he is selling books at concessional rates to people. Shaikh Mohammad can live his life comfortably if he wishes. His son too is a principal in a school. But he believes that whatever he has achieved in his life is only because of the books he has read. He has been selling books at concessional rates since 2005. With the advent of smartphones, people are turning their heads away from books but Shaikh Mohammad hasn't lost hope. He believes books are our best friend. There are days when not even a single book is sold. Still, he doesn't lose hope and continue with his activity with irreplaceable spirit and joy. He stands near MJ Library with his majestic collection of books. Shaikh himself is an avid reader. He specially goes to Delhi and Mumbai to purchase books to cater to the demand of his permanent customers.

One may not even notice Shaikh Mohammad Hussain Noor Mohammad standing in a corner near Sanyas Ashram on Ashram Road, Ahmedabad. But the nerds of the city know him very well. People from the nook and corner of the city come here asking for Shaikh Mohammad. Let us tell you, the man selling books on footpath is no ordinary man.

TOI

He is a retired principal of Modern School, Dhandhuka district. His parents were illiterate and he had his own share of struggles in childhood. This is his gesture to pay debt to the books that helped him grow and achieve success. Today he is selling books at concessional rates to people.

Shaikh Mohammad can live his life comfortably if he wishes. His son too is a principal in a school. But he believes that whatever he has achieved in his life is only because of the books he has read. He has been selling books at concessional rates since 2005.

Representational Image

With the advent of smartphones, people are turning their heads away from books but Shaikh Mohammad hasn't lost hope. He believes books are our best friend. There are days when not even a single book is sold. Still, he doesn't lose hope and continue with his activity with irreplaceable spirit and joy.

He stands near MJ Library with his majestic collection of books. Shaikh himself is an avid reader. He specially goes to Delhi and Mumbai to purchase books to cater to the demand of his permanent customers.

Originally published in Times of India

Don't Miss 27.4 K SHARES 36.8 K SHARES 24.3 K SHARES 30.1 K SHARES 23 K SHARES