Todd McShay best available Day 2 prospects
McShay's best available Day 2 prospects
McShay's best available Day 2 prospects 'Iso Joe' is no joke in these NBA playoffs Who will be running point for Bulls in must-win Game 6? Jimmy Garoppolo's value to Patriots is highlighted on first night of draft Feel the hate: Kesler-McDavid clash already hot Crosby, Ovechkin bring out best in each other NFL draft: Round 1 fantasy reaction Finding the Greek Freak, coaching inequality and avoiding draft chaos It's true, Maria Sharapova could be better than ever The rapid, remarkable rise of official Amanda Sauer One win can instantly change a golfer's life NFL draft prospect Dalvin Cook describes his freshman year with Jameis Winston at Florida State as "starting something special" and hopes to land with the QB in Tampa. (0:49) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment ESPN College Football and NFL Draft Analyst Joined ESPN in 2006 Played quarterback in high school and was a backup QB for the University of Richmond. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Here are the top remaining players left on my board after Day 1 of the 2017 NFL draft, along with scouting reports and Scouts Inc. grades from Steve Muench and Kevin Weidl that ran in our pre-draft top 300 rankings . 1. Forrest Lamp , G, Western Kentucky : Lamp is a converted tackle who will likely move inside at the NFL level. He is a grinder who plays with great technique and balance, and also has the intelligence and versatility to line up at multiple spots along the offensive line. Plug-and-play starter from day one. 2. Dalvin Cook , RB, Florida State : Cook is the most natural runner in the running back class. He is elusive, has outstanding vision and patience and acceleration out of cuts, as well as bringing quality versatility in the passing game. Durability and ball security are slight concerns. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Insider

NFL draft prospect Dalvin Cook describes his freshman year with Jameis Winston at Florida State as "starting something special" and hopes to land with the QB in Tampa. (0:49)

Here are the top remaining players left on my board after Day 1 of the 2017 NFL draft, along with scouting reports and Scouts Inc. grades from Steve Muench and Kevin Weidl that ran in our pre-draft top 300 rankings.

1. Forrest Lamp, G, Western Kentucky

Grade: 90 | Watch Lamp's highlights

What he brings: Lamp is a converted tackle who will likely move inside at the NFL level. He is a grinder who plays with great technique and balance, and also has the intelligence and versatility to line up at multiple spots along the offensive line. Plug-and-play starter from day one. -- Kevin Weidl

2. Dalvin Cook, RB, Florida State

Grade: 90 | Watch Cook's highlights

What he brings: Cook is the most natural runner in the running back class. He is elusive, has outstanding vision and patience and acceleration out of cuts, as well as bringing quality versatility in the passing game. Durability and ball security are slight concerns. -- Kevin Weidl