What Is 5G, And Who's Leading The Way In Development?
What Is 5G, And Who's Leading The Way In Development?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}   Ben Sin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A screen shows information on 5G during a keynote address by CEO of Huawei Consumer Business Group Richard Yu at CES 2017 at The Venetian Las Vegas on January 5, 2017 in Las Vegas, Nevada. CES, the world's largest annual consumer technology trade show, runs through January 8 and features 3,800 exhibitors showing off their latest products and services to more than 165,000 attendees. (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images) The problem isn’t with the tech per se, it’s that the networks and the data needed aren’t ready. What Qiu is saying is simple: The wifi is too slow. Luckily, a solution is coming soon: 5G. Qiu says 5G will shave latency for driver-less cars down to 1 millisecond -- the difference between braking in time or crashing into a tree -- and pump out enough data make VR actually immersive and, like reality, instead of the gimmicky, cartoony, and headache-inducing experience right now. And A.I. will get smarter too, because 5G will, in theory, connect more machines to machines, cities to cities. "If 4G tech built us a road, then 5G tech will build a city," says Talk to any senior execs at any major telecommunication company and they all agree -- 5G is a more important jump from the last generation than 4G was to 3G and 3G was to 2G, etc. I know because I attended a four-hour long 5G conference at the Mobile World Congress two months ago, where companies like Huawei, Nokia, Ericcson and AT&T laid out their plans for 5G connectivity. 5G, they will tell you, is bigger than just being able to download the entire trilogy in 10 seconds (actually, skip ). 5G can let one central factories control heavy machinery across an entire city or state, or help government "smarten up" cities. Think a garbage can that knows when it's full, or traffic lights and signs that know if there's an accident further down the road and help ease congestion accordingly. Huawei consumer business group's chief executive Richard Yu presents the new phone Huawei P10 Plus at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain. (AP Photo/Manu Fernandez) "The basic gist of 5G is that it will make VR and AI better, connect machines to machines, take Internet of Things to the next level," says Qiu. "We estimate that 29 billion devices will be connected by 2021, and 5G will provide the road on which everyone will travel through digitally." As a telecommunication giants that provide networking services to more than 170 countries around the world (covering basically everywhere except North America), Huawei was among one of the world leaders in rolling out 3G and 4G. With 5G, however, Huawei is likely to lead the way. The company began researching on 5G back in 2009, secured polar coding before competitors, introduced the first network splicing router, and today announced plans to begin preparations for 5G rollouts in Hong Kong. 5G was a big topic at MWC 2015 too. Photo: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg Yang Chaobin, president of Huawei's 5G product line, says a proof of concept/pilot program of 5G networks should hit major cities by 2019. "To handle 5G networks, a city needs to have more than 100 base stations," says Yang, referring to a structure that sends and receives radio signals to form a cellular network. "If you ask me which country will have thousands of base stations first, it'll be China." Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Every product in today’s social media-driven world is, in a sense, overhyped. But even taking that into consideration, consumer electronics probably take the cake for most shameless overpromising, and none more than the brouhaha surrounding AI and VR the past couple of years. Every commercial for VR headsets, whether it’s by LG or Samsung or Sony, want you to believe that putting on the device is to step into a truly immersive experience, except no, the pixels are clearly visible, there’s a bit of lag, and the headsets are not comfortable to wear more than 15 to 20 minutes at a time. AI? Don’t even get me started. Bixby, Siri, Google Assistant, Cortana are hardly as smart as its respective tech CEOs claim to be, and Google’s self-driving cars seem to have gotten into quite a few accidents already.

Both VR and AI want so bad to work the way commercials and tech CEOs want them to work, but there’s been virtually zero progress in the past 12 months -- VR was hailed as the breakout hit of CES in 2016; by 2017’s event, Facebook-backed Oculus Rift didn’t even have a booth. What gives?

The problem isn’t with the tech per se, it’s that the networks and the data needed aren’t ready.

“Virtual reality, in order to achieve the true immersion needs several hundred gigabits of data, which 4G cannot do wireless right now,” says Qiu Heng, Huawei's president of wireless marketing operations. "More importantly, the latency for self-driving cars right now is around the 50 millisecond range. That's also not enough."

What Qiu is saying is simple: The wifi is too slow. Luckily, a solution is coming soon: 5G.

Qiu says 5G will shave latency for driver-less cars down to 1 millisecond -- the difference between braking in time or crashing into a tree -- and pump out enough data make VR actually immersive and, like reality, instead of the gimmicky, cartoony, and headache-inducing experience right now. And A.I. will get smarter too, because 5G will, in theory, connect more machines to machines, cities to cities.

"If 4G tech built us a road, then 5G tech will build a city," says Wang Xiaoyun, general manager of technology of China Mobile, the largest mobile telecommunications company by market capitalization (mainly because of China's vast population).

Talk to any senior execs at any major telecommunication company and they all agree -- 5G is a more important jump from the last generation than 4G was to 3G and 3G was to 2G, etc. I know because I attended a four-hour long 5G conference at the Mobile World Congress two months ago, where companies like Huawei, Nokia, Ericcson and AT&T laid out their plans for 5G connectivity. 5G, they will tell you, is bigger than just being able to download the entire Godfather trilogy in 10 seconds (actually, skip Godfather III). 5G can let one central factories control heavy machinery across an entire city or state, or help government "smarten up" cities. Think a garbage can that knows when it's full, or traffic lights and signs that know if there's an accident further down the road and help ease congestion accordingly.

"The basic gist of 5G is that it will make VR and AI better, connect machines to machines, take Internet of Things to the next level," says Qiu. "We estimate that 29 billion devices will be connected by 2021, and 5G will provide the road on which everyone will travel through digitally."

As a telecommunication giants that provide networking services to more than 170 countries around the world (covering basically everywhere except North America), Huawei was among one of the world leaders in rolling out 3G and 4G. With 5G, however, Huawei is likely to lead the way. The company began researching on 5G back in 2009, secured polar coding before competitors, introduced the first network splicing router, and today announced plans to begin preparations for 5G rollouts in Hong Kong.

Yang Chaobin, president of Huawei's 5G product line, says a proof of concept/pilot program of 5G networks should hit major cities by 2019.

"To handle 5G networks, a city needs to have more than 100 base stations," says Yang, referring to a structure that sends and receives radio signals to form a cellular network. "If you ask me which country will have thousands of base stations first, it'll be China."