Guy in Court for Traffic Ticket Ends Up Behind Bars After Cocaine Falls Out of His Hat
Guy in Court for Traffic Ticket Ends Up Behind Bars After Cocaine Falls Out of His Hat
Let this be your daily reminder to clean your hat, your pockets, etc., if you're going into a courtroom. Lemar Reed is a 39-year-old Ohio man who stopped by Cleveland's Lorain Municipal Court last week to enter a plea on a minor traffic violation. While he was speaking to the judge, he accidentally dropped a packet of what turned out to be cocaine on the courthouse floor. Here, watch for yourself: This man went to court in Ohio for a minor traffic offence, but could end up in prison after dropping a bag of cocaine in front of the judge pic.twitter.com/Plo9bizTNt Without a slow-mo replay and arrow to point it out, court officials didn't notice the coke for about an hour. However, eventually, a security guard picked it up and handed it to the police department to be tested. After a positive test, court officials watched the footage and saw what you just saw if you clicked 'play' on the video above. Of course, afterward they put out a warrant for Reed's arrest. Reed, who initially left the building with just a fine, was apprehended and is now being charged with a felony.

Let this be your daily reminder to clean your hat, your pockets, etc., if you're going into a courtroom.

Lemar Reed is a 39-year-old Ohio man who stopped by Cleveland's Lorain Municipal Court last week to enter a plea on a minor traffic violation. While he was speaking to the judge, he accidentally dropped a packet of what turned out to be cocaine on the courthouse floor.

Here, watch for yourself:

This man went to court in Ohio for a minor traffic offence, but could end up in prison after dropping a bag of cocaine in front of the judge pic.twitter.com/Plo9bizTNt — BBC News (World) (@BBCWorld) April 27, 2017

Without a slow-mo replay and arrow to point it out, court officials didn't notice the coke for about an hour. However, eventually, a security guard picked it up and handed it to the police department to be tested. After a positive test, court officials watched the footage and saw what you just saw if you clicked 'play' on the video above. Of course, afterward they put out a warrant for Reed's arrest.

Reed, who initially left the building with just a fine, was apprehended and is now being charged with a felony.