LaVar Ball Is Getting Roasted for Costing His Son Lonzo a Major Sneaker Deal
LaVar Ball Is Getting Roasted for Costing His Son Lonzo a Major Sneaker Deal
Remember that $1 billion sneaker deal that LaVar Ball said he was going to try and score for his sons Lonzo , LiAngelo, and LaMelo recently? Yeeeeeeeah, about that. BREAKING: Nike, Under Armour & adidas passing on Lonzo Ball after LaVar insisted on them licensing Big Baller Brand https://t.co/Z25NmPOX1G Early Friday morning, ESPN’s Darren Rovell revealed that Nike , Adidas ,  Under Armour have all decided that they are not going to sign Lonzo to a sneaker deal this spring , even though he’s likely going to be a top-five pick in the 2017 NBA Draft. The reason? It seems LaVar is insisting that the brand that signs him has to license the family’s Big Baller Brand as part of a potential deal. He doesn’t just want Lonzo to just sign a standard sneaker endorsement deal. "... we aren't looking for an endorsement deal. We're looking for co-branding, a true partner."  —LaVar Ball https://t.co/ebcV5ypwXP It doesn’t sound like any of the major sneaker companies have any interest in BBB, though, so that means that Lonzo is unlikely to have a shoe deal at the start of his NBA career. It also means that LaVar is currently getting roasted on social media since everyone is now blaming him for what has transpired. Those on Twitter have a lot to say about LaVar costing his son a deal, and they’re taking him to task for it (and suggesting some other sneaker companies that might take the deal LaVar is offering). Check out some of the craziest reactions below. LaVar Ball walking into Sketchers offices pic.twitter.com/f132W6nZKc Lavar Ball coming to Payless looking to make a deal like... pic.twitter.com/puf7ZFpTiL Lavar Ball is now trying to ink that multi-thousand dollar deal with British Knights pic.twitter.com/4B2bBvXLMr Lavar Ball gonna have his sons balling in LA Gear when they get to the NBA. lavar ball in FILA offices like pic.twitter.com/aP44MfmFPp Lavar Ball after he just closed a deal with Dada shoes pic.twitter.com/tmhTUqPqjp lavar ball gonna have lonzo out there with the generic 2K my player sneakers thatyou gotta wear before you sign a deal Lavar Ball can still get a joint partnership shoe deal for Lonzo with the Shaq sneakers tho! pic.twitter.com/XVBIGYMWQ7 When you find out LaVar Ball got a deal with P.Miller shoes pic.twitter.com/ZVz7virYvz Live shot of Lavar Ball walking into his sales pitch meeting with Crocs pic.twitter.com/JtlDoYpMWN We should point out that there some people sticking up for LaVar and giving him props for what he’s trying to do: Lavar Ball is doing the right thing pointing out how the major sneaker brands all profit off athletes and not allowing his son to b victim What Lavar Ball wants is a distro and license deal from a major corp. He wants control of his brand. Nothing wrong w/ it So Lavar Ball wanting the big brands to license the family's brand name is no good? I think it's a brilliant idea. Y'all buggin. Nah forreal tho, nothin wrong with what Lavar Ball doin, Jordan had the right idea, brand yourself and they have the perfect last name Our community would be a lot better off if we all had the ambition of Lavar Ball. But those responses are few and far between. Social media doesn’t seem to have much sympathy for LaVar after some of the things he has said and done over the last few months.

Remember that $1 billion sneaker deal that LaVar Ball said he was going to try and score for his sons Lonzo, LiAngelo, and LaMelo recently? Yeeeeeeeah, about that.

BREAKING: Nike, Under Armour & adidas passing on Lonzo Ball after LaVar insisted on them licensing Big Baller Brand https://t.co/Z25NmPOX1G — Darren Rovell (@darrenrovell) April 28, 2017

Early Friday morning, ESPN’s Darren Rovell revealed that Nike, Adidas, and Under Armour have all decided that they are not going to sign Lonzo to a sneaker deal this spring, even though he’s likely going to be a top-five pick in the 2017 NBA Draft. The reason? It seems LaVar is insisting that the brand that signs him has to license the family’s Big Baller Brand as part of a potential deal. He doesn’t just want Lonzo to just sign a standard sneaker endorsement deal.

"... we aren't looking for an endorsement deal. We're looking for co-branding, a true partner."



—LaVar Ball https://t.co/ebcV5ypwXP — SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) April 28, 2017

It doesn’t sound like any of the major sneaker companies have any interest in BBB, though, so that means that Lonzo is unlikely to have a shoe deal at the start of his NBA career. It also means that LaVar is currently getting roasted on social media since everyone is now blaming him for what has transpired. Those on Twitter have a lot to say about LaVar costing his son a deal, and they’re taking him to task for it (and suggesting some other sneaker companies that might take the deal LaVar is offering). Check out some of the craziest reactions below.

We should point out that there are some people sticking up for LaVar and giving him props for what he’s trying to do:

Lavar Ball is doing the right thing pointing out how the major sneaker brands all profit off athletes and not allowing his son to b victim — BrothaKuf (@KufereJahi) April 28, 2017 What Lavar Ball wants is a distro and license deal from a major corp. He wants control of his brand. Nothing wrong w/ it — Terrill ™ (@TerrillCharming) April 28, 2017 So Lavar Ball wanting the big brands to license the family's brand name is no good? I think it's a brilliant idea. Y'all buggin. — 25+ Million Streams (@Its_AKing) April 28, 2017 Nah forreal tho, nothin wrong with what Lavar Ball doin, Jordan had the right idea, brand yourself and they have the perfect last name — Herb Sears (@FTLHERB) April 28, 2017 Our community would be a lot better off if we all had the ambition of Lavar Ball. — SanAntonio GoodDudes (@RDJr__) April 28, 2017

But those responses are few and far between. Social media doesn’t seem to have much sympathy for LaVar after some of the things he has said and done over the last few months.