J.J. Watt tells Antonio Brown to haze his brother T.J. in Pittsburgh
Watt to WR Brown: Haze my brother T.J. in Pitt.
Watt to WR Brown: Haze my brother T.J. in Pitt. Pros and cons for every first-round draft pick NFL draft: Round 1 fantasy reaction Takk's great escape: A pass-rusher's remarkable path to the NFL If Wisconsin linebacker T.J. Watt can stay healthy, Mel Kiper Jr. thinks the versatile pass-rusher can have a successful career in the NFL. (0:31) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment ESPN staff writer Previously a college football reporter for CBSSports.com University of Florida graduate Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment PITTSBURGH -- Apparently two NFL superstars could now be plotting against Pittsburgh Steelers first-round pick T.J. Watt . Watt's brother, Houston Texans defensive end J.J. Watt , said he texted Steelers receiver Antonio Brown with ways to treat T.J. like a rookie. "Look over my brother, make sure to haze him a little extra for me," Watt said about his exchange with Brown. They were teammates at Central Michigan before Watt transferred to Wisconsin, where T.J. also played. T.J. became the Steelers' fifth consecutive defensive player selected in the first round when the franchise took him 30th overall Thursday night. In his first full season as a defensive starter, Watt recorded 11.5 sacks and earned second-team All-America honors. The Watt brothers are Wisconsin's two most recent first-round picks on defense. Watt went 11th overall to Houston in 2011. Speaking on conference call with Pittsburgh media, J.J. said his brother "plays with so much energy and passion" and will "only get better." "He has such good instincts, such a good nose for the ball -- he's a natural playmaker," Watt said. "He's always been a natural athlete. He's always been a little bit more smooth [an athlete] than I was. He can make some moves and has natural abilities that didn't necessarily come as easily as it comes to me. But I don't want to say natural because I've seen the work. He plays the game with so much joy, and it's fun to watch." T.J., 22, said he's ecstatic to play for a storied Steelers franchise and plans to emerge from his brother's large shadow on his own merit. General manager Kevin Colbert sensed Watt was his own man during the pre-draft process. NFL success has brought the brothers closer together, J.J., 28, said. Derek, 24, is a fullback for the Los Angeles Chargers . "We realize we can use it to each other's advantage, appreciate the competition and the fun that we bring in each other's lives," J.J. said. "It's a blast to watch each other grow." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Sponsored Headlines

If Wisconsin linebacker T.J. Watt can stay healthy, Mel Kiper Jr. thinks the versatile pass-rusher can have a successful career in the NFL. (0:31)

PITTSBURGH -- Apparently two NFL superstars could now be plotting against Pittsburgh Steelers first-round pick T.J. Watt.

Watt's brother, Houston Texans defensive end J.J. Watt, said he texted Steelers receiver Antonio Brown with ways to treat T.J. like a rookie.

"Look over my brother, make sure to haze him a little extra for me," Watt said about his exchange with Brown. They were teammates at Central Michigan before Watt transferred to Wisconsin, where T.J. also played.

"We realize we can use it to each other's advantage, appreciate the competition and the fun that we bring in each other's lives," J.J. Watt said. Bob Levey/Getty Images

T.J. became the Steelers' fifth consecutive defensive player selected in the first round when the franchise took him 30th overall Thursday night. In his first full season as a defensive starter, Watt recorded 11.5 sacks and earned second-team All-America honors. The Watt brothers are Wisconsin's two most recent first-round picks on defense. Watt went 11th overall to Houston in 2011.

Speaking on conference call with Pittsburgh media, J.J. said his brother "plays with so much energy and passion" and will "only get better."

"He has such good instincts, such a good nose for the ball -- he's a natural playmaker," Watt said. "He's always been a natural athlete. He's always been a little bit more smooth [an athlete] than I was. He can make some moves and has natural abilities that didn't necessarily come as easily as it comes to me. But I don't want to say natural because I've seen the work. He plays the game with so much joy, and it's fun to watch."

Editor's Picks Watt brothers eye Texans-Steelers tilt on Xmas After younger brother T.J. was drafted by the Steelers on Thursday, Texans star J.J. Watt expressed excitement about the Christmas Day matchup between Houston and Pittsburgh.

T.J., 22, said he's ecstatic to play for a storied Steelers franchise and plans to emerge from his brother's large shadow on his own merit. General manager Kevin Colbert sensed Watt was his own man during the pre-draft process.

NFL success has brought the brothers closer together, J.J., 28, said. Derek, 24, is a fullback for the Los Angeles Chargers.

"We realize we can use it to each other's advantage, appreciate the competition and the fun that we bring in each other's lives," J.J. said. "It's a blast to watch each other grow."