Donald Trump: Why do we care about the US President's first 100 days?



Donald Trump: Why do we care about the US President's first 100 days?

Posted

Donald Trump is about to complete 100 days in the office of President of the United States.

But, barring something extraordinary, Mr Trump will be President for at least another 1,361 days.

He's through just 6.8 per cent of his first term.

So why do these first 100 days matter even matter?

It started by accident

It's widely considered that the 100-day benchmark of measuring a president's progress began with America's 32nd president Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR).

He had a whirlwind first 100 days where he passed 76 pieces of legislation, many of which were the beginnings of his famous New Deal.

In one of his iconic fireside chats, FDR said this:

"First, I think that we all wanted the opportunity of a little quiet thought to examine and assimilate in a mental picture the crowding events of the hundred days."

You can read more of the speech here, where FDR outlines what he achieved in a pivotal time in American history.

It's when presidents are most effective

New presidents normally have a pretty healthy approval rating, which means they've got plenty of political capital to spend on pushing their agenda through congress.

Research by Casey Dominguez published in the journal Congress and the Presidency found that presidents have higher success rates during the first 100 days of their first year than at other times in their presidency.

After that, things get significantly harder (see below).

But, writing for FiveThirtyEight, Julia Azari found that while the first 100 days do matter, since FDR, presidents have become less productive in their first 100 days.

She says increasing partisanship in America could be one reason for the drop in productivity.

Don't forget, Trump wanted to be measured at 100 days

Mr Trump made his thoughts known on the approaching deadline with this tweet last week.

Despite those objections, during the campaign Mr Trump launched his "Contract with the American Voter".

"What follows is my 100-day action plan to Make America Great Again," the contract reads.

During the transition, Mr Trump also released a video outlining his plans for the first 100 days.

Which makes it pretty clear. The 100-day benchmark matters.

This might be as easy as it gets for Trump

Once the 100-days benchmark has passed, the attention of the political world turns to another hurdle for Mr Trump: mid-term elections.

They're due in 2018, and it's when the entire 435 seats of the House and 34 of the 100 seats in the Senate will be up for re-election.

Mid-terms are seen as a check on how the president is doing.

The bad news for Mr Trump is, they're normally trouble if you're the sitting president.

Congressmen and women become much more hesitant to pass bills that could hurt their chances of re-election (especially if the president is unpopular).

Which is why the first 100 days are even more important.

From here on, Mr Trump might be dealing with an even more uncooperative congress than the one that knocked back his healthcare plans.

Topics: donald-trump, world-politics, government-and-politics, united-states