China And Pakistan Use Biryani To Take Their Friendship To A Whole New Level
China And Pakistan Use Biryani To Take Their Friendship To A Whole New Level
China And Pakistan Use Biryani To Take Their Friendship To A Whole New Level China and Pakistan have cemented their political friendship over a plate of Biryani. A new Shan masala ad depicts a Chinese couple living in Pakistan. The opening scene shows the wife looking at her neighbours with a melancholic look in her eyes. At lunch, while eating noodles, the husband implies that she’ll enjoy her time in the country if she makes friends. She replies, “We don’t have anything in common. We don’t even eat the same food.” While scrolling through her phone, she has an idea. She goes to the supermarket, picks up a few ingredients, comes home and cooks up a plate of Biryani, and serves it in a bamboo steamer. She then covers her hair with a scarf and walks up to her neighbour, which they enjoy together. The ad has gone viral, but many are also having a good laugh over how seriously the two countries are taking the progress of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and advancements at the Gwadar port. But hey, who can turn down a good plate of steaming, hot Biryani. To all going gaga over the Shan Foods ad - you know 'cooking' isn't the only way women bond right? Ok. Good. #ShanFoods ! Taking #CPEC way too seriously! :D And the brand wars begin. #PizzaNahiBiryani  #Shan  pic.twitter.com/HBvhmireH8

China and Pakistan have cemented their political friendship over a plate of Biryani.

A new Shan masala ad depicts a Chinese couple living in Pakistan. The opening scene shows the wife looking at her neighbours with a melancholic look in her eyes. At lunch, while eating noodles, the husband implies that she’ll enjoy her time in the country if she makes friends.

She replies, “We don’t have anything in common. We don’t even eat the same food.”

While scrolling through her phone, she has an idea. She goes to the supermarket, picks up a few ingredients, comes home and cooks up a plate of Biryani, and serves it in a bamboo steamer.

She then covers her hair with a scarf and walks up to her neighbour, which they enjoy together.

The ad has gone viral, but many are also having a good laugh over how seriously the two countries are taking the progress of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and advancements at the Gwadar port.

But hey, who can turn down a good plate of steaming, hot Biryani.

To all going gaga over the Shan Foods ad - you know 'cooking' isn't the only way women bond right?

Ok. Good. — Hamna Zubair (@hamnazubair) April 24, 2017

Don't Miss 560 SHARES 37.6 K SHARES 24.6 K SHARES 30.2 K SHARES