Interest rates: As APRA warns of more rises, ANZ delivers



Interest rates: As APRA warns of more rises, ANZ delivers

Posted

APRA chairman Wayne Byers has foreshadowed banks will be obliged to embark on another round of interest rates hikes, particularly for housing investors.

Key points: All the major banks raised rates by up to 0.5pc last month and APRA says there's more to come

APRA warns banks about "back door" funding of investors through risky shadow banking channels

Investor lending last month grew at its fastest pace since January 2015

Speaking at a property outlook forum in Sydney, the banking sector's chief regulator said while lending standards had improved and investor lending growth had slowed, more still needed to be done.

"As a result of our most recent guidance to lenders, we expect some further tightening to occur," Mr Byers said.

As if to prove the regulator's point, Mr Byers had hardly shuffled off stage when ANZ informed brokers rates on most new interest-only fixed-term loans would be increased by 0.4 percentage points.

There was some relief for ANZ customers willing to pay off debt with principal-and-interest loans, as some products were cut by 0.4-to-0.5 percentage points.

The different treatment of higher-risk — mainly interest-only — loans and more conservative lending is becoming more pronounced, as Mr Byes observed.

"Lenders subject to APRA's oversight have increasingly eschewed higher risk business, often by reducing maximum loan-to-valuation ratios, or charged a higher price for it," he said.

"For example, there is now a clear price differential between lending to owner-occupiers on a principal and interest basis, and lending to investors on an interest-only basis."

The "big four" lenders have all made out-of-cycle changes in the past month, with the biggest lender, CBA, adopting the most aggressive stance raising longer-term fixed investor rates by up to 0.5 percentage points, double the standard shift move by the Reserve Bank.

Unregulated lending to investors is a growing concern

While the action no doubt pleases APRA, Mr Byers signalled a new concern that the tougher stance may be pushing lending into unregulated "shadow" banking and bluntly told the banks to be careful about providing warehouse facilities to this growing sector.

"Of course, lenders not regulated by APRA will still provide competitive tension in that area and it is likely that some business, particularly in the higher risk categories, will flow to these providers," he said.

"That is why we also cautioned lenders who provide warehouse facilities to make sure that the business they are funding through these facilities was not growing at a materially faster rate than the lender's own housing loan portfolio, and that lending standards for loans held within warehouses was not of a materially lower quality than would be consistent with industry-wide sound practices.

"We don't want the risks we are seeking to dampen coming onto bank balance sheets through the back door," Mr Byers said.

The shift differential treatment of investors and owner-occupiers had also led to a flood of borrowers switching the purpose of their loan.

The latest credit aggregate figures published by the RBA found that between mid-2015 and March this year more than $50 billion of loans have switched from being classified as investor to owner-occupier by the banks.

The RBA found another $1.2 billion was switched last month, around the time the banks were accelerating the rate differentials.

Investor lending is still growing but may have peaked

However, the RBA data also shows there is still a considerable appetite for investor loans, and growth in the segment was still outpacing owner-occupier lending.

Investor lending in March grew at an annualised rate by 7.1 per cent, up from 6.7 per cent in February, the pace since January last year.

The rate of investor lending is still more than three times greater than wage growth.

Owner occupier lending grew by 6.2 per cent.

However APRA's imposition to tighter lending rules in on the investor sector in March is starting to bite after the RBA's interest rate cuts last year refuelled speculative lending.

The cuts in May and August fired up investor housing credit growth from an annualised rate of 3.6 per cent in the three months to December 2015 to 9.1 per cent in the three months to December 2016.

"It appears that momentum in investor credit has already peaked, with 3 month annualised growth in March 2017 moderating a little to 8.2 per cent," Westpac economist Andrew Hanlan said.

"A further moderation is in prospect," he said.

In a separate report, the credit ratings agency Fitch Ratings said the 50 basis points of rate cuts from the RBA last year appeared to have little impact on borrowers' loan serviceability.

Mortgage arrears edged up 3 basis points in the last quarter of 2016 to 1.09 per cent over the previous three months.

"The 30-plus days arrears were up by 15 basis points from 2015, despite Australia's improved economic environment of appreciating house prices and low interest rates," Fitch noted, although overall losses on residential mortgage backed securities remained "extremely low".

"Underemployment and the mining sector slowdown, which have led to lower house prices in the regional areas of Queensland, Western Australia and the Northern Territory, may have affected borrowers.

"However, RMBS exposure to these areas remains limited, with most loans located in capital cities and major urban areas," Fitch noted.

Topics: consumer-finance, economic-trends, banking, housing-industry, australia