Five Signs You Work For A Weak Manager
Five Signs You Work For A Weak Manager
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}   Liz Ryan       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. We are learning more and more about leadership all the time. One of the biggest "Ahas!" new and experienced managers (and the people who work for them) have experienced over the past few years is the realization that being a strong manager doesn't mean being forceful or domineering. It's just the opposite -- strong managers are strong enough to lead through trust, whereas weak managers have to use the force of their job titles to make people listen to them. When we talk about fear-based management, it's the weak managers we are referring to! You can spot a weak manager at a hundred paces or more, because weak managers are the ones who raise their voices, make threats and generally keep their teammates off-balance and worried about pleasing the manager when our customers need them to be happily focused on their work. How To Deal With Crazy Bosses Strong managers lead through trust. They trust their teammates and their employees trust them. They don't have to be right. They don't care whether they are right or not, as long as the right answer emerges from the conversation. They don't have to be bossy. They trust their employees to know what to do and to ask for help if they need it. Weak managers don't trust themselves enough to lead that way! Here are five sure signs that your manager is a weak manager pretending to be strong. We can feel sorry for him or her but you don't have time to waste in a workplace that dims your flame. If your manager is not a mentor and an advocate for you, you deserve to work for someone who is! When a weak manager isn't sure what to do next, he or she won't ask the team for help. Instead, the weak manager will make up a solution on the spot and say "Just do it -- I'm the manager, and I told you what I want!" A weak manager cannot ask for input from people s/he supervises. If you try to reason with your weak manager, s/he'll get angry. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

We are learning more and more about leadership all the time. One of the biggest "Ahas!" new and experienced managers (and the people who work for them) have experienced over the past few years is the realization that being a strong manager doesn't mean being forceful or domineering.

It's just the opposite -- strong managers are strong enough to lead through trust, whereas weak managers have to use the force of their job titles to make people listen to them.

When we talk about fear-based management, it's the weak managers we are referring to! You can spot a weak manager at a hundred paces or more, because weak managers are the ones who raise their voices, make threats and generally keep their teammates off-balance and worried about pleasing the manager when our customers need them to be happily focused on their work.

Strong managers lead through trust. They trust their teammates and their employees trust them. They don't have to be right. They don't care whether they are right or not, as long as the right answer emerges from the conversation. They don't have to be bossy. They trust their employees to know what to do and to ask for help if they need it.

Weak managers don't trust themselves enough to lead that way!

Here are five sure signs that your manager is a weak manager pretending to be strong. We can feel sorry for him or her but you don't have time to waste in a workplace that dims your flame. If your manager is not a mentor and an advocate for you, you deserve to work for someone who is!

Can't Ask for Help

When a weak manager isn't sure what to do next, he or she won't ask the team for help. Instead, the weak manager will make up a solution on the spot and say "Just do it -- I'm the manager, and I told you what I want!" A weak manager cannot ask for input from people s/he supervises. If you try to reason with your weak manager, s/he'll get angry.