Duterte opens ASEAN summit with oblique swipe at US, EU
Duterte opens ASEAN summit with oblique swipe at US, EU
Shares                Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte opened an annual summit of Southeast Asian leaders on Saturday with an oblique swipe at Western governments, asking them not to meddle in the affairs of regional countries. Duterte has often lashed out Western criticism of his brutal anti-drug crackdown. Although couched in diplomatic tone, the president's remarks at the opening ceremony of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Manila reflect his combative character. Ties between ASEAN and the West could become stronger and more productive "if we learn to respect each other's independence and treat each other as sovereign equals," Duterte said. "Relations bear fruit when they are based on mutual respect and benefit." Duterte also cited the need for the 10-nation bloc to address security issues, including terrorism and piracy, but made no mention of touchy South China Sea territorial rifts, which China did not want to be highlighted in the daylong talks. The long-simmering disputes, along with alarm over North Korea's nuclear ambitions and intensifying standoff with the United States, have taken attention away from the more benign topics of regional economic integration. The summit is the first major international event Duterte has hosted since taking office 10 months ago. Duterte, whose drug war has left thousands dead and drawn rebukes from the U.S., UN, EU and rights groups, stressed the need to make ASEAN drug-free. "The illegal drug trade apparatus is massive. But it is not impregnable," Duterte said. "With political will and cooperation, it can be dismantled. It can be destroyed before it destroys our societies." The 72-year-old Duterte faces a mass murder complaint before the International Criminal Court and an impeachment bid at home as bodies continue to pile up in his drugs campaign. Duterte will find solace from the storm of criticism in ASEAN, which has a bedrock policy forbidding member states from meddling in each other's domestic affairs. That has helped ASEAN, founded a half-century ago, to become an unwieldy collective of dictatorships, authoritarian states and a monarchy, along with fledgling democracies. Unlike his predecessor, Duterte has said he would not highlight the South China Sea disputes at the summit, particularly his country's arbitration victory against Beijing. The ruling last July invalidated China's historic claims to most of the disputed waters and said Beijing violated the rights of Filipinos when Chinese coast guard ships blocked them from fishing in a disputed shoal. China called the ruling a sham and has moved to block it from being discussed at the summit or mentioned in the standard communique issued at the end of the meetings. Ahead of the summit, Chinese officials asked the Philippines , as ASEAN host, to avoid any reference to China's arbitration defeat in the communique, three Philippine officials told The Associated Press on Friday on condition of anonymity. An early draft of the communique obtained by the AP did not mention the ruling but used an alternative phrase — "full respect for legal and diplomatic processes." The Chinese also wanted that removed because they believe it referred to the ruling, the officials said. In the latest version of the communique, that phrase has been removed from the South China Sea topic and moved elsewhere in the statement, which discussed all issues tackled by the ASEAN leaders. Although seemingly a small detail, that change represented a victory by China to shield itself from calls to comply with the arbitration decision. On North Korea, the ASEAN leaders would express "grave concern" over developments in the Korean Peninsula, including two nuclear tests staged by the North last year and subsequent ballistic missile launches, according to the latest draft of the ASEAN communique. The latest missile launch was Saturday. "The actions of the DPRK have resulted in an escalation of tensions that can affect peace and stability in the entire region," the leaders said in the draft statement. Shares                  Duterte opens ASEAN summit with oblique swipe at US, EU   Trump: My first 100 days are 'most successful' in US history   Trump signs bill to temporarily avert government shutdown   Fitbit says woman's tracker didn't explode on its own   Security tight as pope celebrates open-air Mass in Cairo   Tillerson eyes cutting 2,300 jobs at State Department   2 Army Rangers may have been killed by friendly fire in Afghanistan   Couple welcomes puppy to family with paw-dorable sex reveal photo shoot   Amazon's new virtual stylist raises privacy concerns   Bride gets kidney transplant days before wedding: 'It saved my life'   Teaching acceptance of all people, 1 video at a time   2 people who've been pen pals for 42 years meet for the 1st time   Mom and 6 sons cut their hair, donate it to kids in need   SeaWorld welcomes unexpected sea lion pup amid care for sick mother   600-year-old tree that witnessed history taken down   United Airlines CEO to testify on Capitol Hill Tuesday   Bill Cosby: Judge rules Quaaludes comments are admissible; Spanish fly jokes aren't   Wife of slain Delaware trooper says he was proud of his work   Experts: Long road ahead for Trump offshore drilling order   Pope Francis visits Egypt after attacks on Coptic churches   No Zika detected in Florida mosquitoes so far this year, officials say   UK police arrest 6 in raids, foiling terror plot   ANALYSIS: Trump's Twitter use brings risks and rewards   'Sex and the City' star Sarah Jessica Parker immortalized in a 26-pound wedding dress cake   Immigrants plan May Day rallies buoyed by Trump opposition   How LA rose from the ashes of the riots 25 years ago   Shannen Doherty's breast cancer is in remission: 'I am blessed'   'Purple Rain' re-issue to feature unreleased Prince songs

Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte opened an annual summit of Southeast Asian leaders on Saturday with an oblique swipe at Western governments, asking them not to meddle in the affairs of regional countries.

Duterte has often lashed out Western criticism of his brutal anti-drug crackdown. Although couched in diplomatic tone, the president's remarks at the opening ceremony of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Manila reflect his combative character.

Ties between ASEAN and the West could become stronger and more productive "if we learn to respect each other's independence and treat each other as sovereign equals," Duterte said. "Relations bear fruit when they are based on mutual respect and benefit."

Duterte also cited the need for the 10-nation bloc to address security issues, including terrorism and piracy, but made no mention of touchy South China Sea territorial rifts, which China did not want to be highlighted in the daylong talks.

The long-simmering disputes, along with alarm over North Korea's nuclear ambitions and intensifying standoff with the United States, have taken attention away from the more benign topics of regional economic integration.

The summit is the first major international event Duterte has hosted since taking office 10 months ago.

Duterte, whose drug war has left thousands dead and drawn rebukes from the U.S., UN, EU and rights groups, stressed the need to make ASEAN drug-free.

"The illegal drug trade apparatus is massive. But it is not impregnable," Duterte said. "With political will and cooperation, it can be dismantled. It can be destroyed before it destroys our societies."

The 72-year-old Duterte faces a mass murder complaint before the International Criminal Court and an impeachment bid at home as bodies continue to pile up in his drugs campaign.

Duterte will find solace from the storm of criticism in ASEAN, which has a bedrock policy forbidding member states from meddling in each other's domestic affairs. That has helped ASEAN, founded a half-century ago, to become an unwieldy collective of dictatorships, authoritarian states and a monarchy, along with fledgling democracies.

Unlike his predecessor, Duterte has said he would not highlight the South China Sea disputes at the summit, particularly his country's arbitration victory against Beijing. The ruling last July invalidated China's historic claims to most of the disputed waters and said Beijing violated the rights of Filipinos when Chinese coast guard ships blocked them from fishing in a disputed shoal.

China called the ruling a sham and has moved to block it from being discussed at the summit or mentioned in the standard communique issued at the end of the meetings. Ahead of the summit, Chinese officials asked the Philippines, as ASEAN host, to avoid any reference to China's arbitration defeat in the communique, three Philippine officials told The Associated Press on Friday on condition of anonymity.

An early draft of the communique obtained by the AP did not mention the ruling but used an alternative phrase — "full respect for legal and diplomatic processes." The Chinese also wanted that removed because they believe it referred to the ruling, the officials said.

In the latest version of the communique, that phrase has been removed from the South China Sea topic and moved elsewhere in the statement, which discussed all issues tackled by the ASEAN leaders. Although seemingly a small detail, that change represented a victory by China to shield itself from calls to comply with the arbitration decision.

On North Korea, the ASEAN leaders would express "grave concern" over developments in the Korean Peninsula, including two nuclear tests staged by the North last year and subsequent ballistic missile launches, according to the latest draft of the ASEAN communique. The latest missile launch was Saturday.

"The actions of the DPRK have resulted in an escalation of tensions that can affect peace and stability in the entire region," the leaders said in the draft statement.