Prince Harry to attend Army and Navy rugby match with Invictus competitors
Prince Harry to attend Army and Navy rugby match with Invictus competitors
ugby fan Prince Harry will join cheering spectators at Twickenham stadium to watch the Army take on their Royal Navy rivals. Harry will attend the annual match between the senior teams of the services in his role as patron of the Invictus Games Foundation, which is the official charity for this year's game. Harry will be joined by competitors from the 2014 and 2016 Invictus Games, the paralympic-style competition for wounded or sick service personnel and veterans, and some of those hoping to be selected for the third games being staged in Toronto in the autumn. Their friends and families have also been invited as the Invictus Games Foundation wants to recognise the vital contribution this close support network plays in a competitor's recovery journey. The Foundation was set up to pursue and develop the legacy of the Invictus Games and it manages the process of selecting hosts of future Games and overseeing their delivery. Prince Harry will meet the Army and Navy teams before taking his seat and will take part in a short half-time interview alongside an Invictus Games competitor and present the Babcock Trophy to the winning team. The match at the stadium in south-west London is the final and deciding fixture in the Inter Services rugby competition, which also features an RAF team.

Rugby fan Prince Harry will join cheering spectators at Twickenham stadium to watch the Army take on their Royal Navy rivals.

Harry will attend the annual match between the senior teams of the services in his role as patron of the Invictus Games Foundation, which is the official charity for this year's game.

Harry will be joined by competitors from the 2014 and 2016 Invictus Games, the paralympic-style competition for wounded or sick service personnel and veterans, and some of those hoping to be selected for the third games being staged in Toronto in the autumn.

Their friends and families have also been invited as the Invictus Games Foundation wants to recognise the vital contribution this close support network plays in a competitor's recovery journey.

The Foundation was set up to pursue and develop the legacy of the Invictus Games and it manages the process of selecting hosts of future Games and overseeing their delivery.

Prince Harry will meet the Army and Navy teams before taking his seat and will take part in a short half-time interview alongside an Invictus Games competitor and present the Babcock Trophy to the winning team.

The match at the stadium in south-west London is the final and deciding fixture in the Inter Services rugby competition, which also features an RAF team.