'Rich kids of Instagram meets Hunger Games': Guests at luxury Fyre Festival where tickets cost $12,000 'mugged, stranded and hungry'
'Rich kids of Instagram meets Hunger Games': Guests at luxury Fyre Festival where tickets cost $12,000 'mugged, stranded and hungry' 
t was supposed to be the most glamorous event of the year, with all the selfie opportunities and flower-crowns a young, gym-bodied social media influencer could dream of. But Fyre Festival, an elite concert event on a deserted island in the Bahamas with tickets priced up to $12,000 has quickly turned into a terrifying B-movie, with flocks of Instagram models forced to seek shelter in an airport after arriving to discover a lack of food, violent locals, appalling accommodation and feral dogs roaming the grounds. s a result, social media has exploded overnight with tales of Instagram-filtered terror and disappointment, with beautiful festival-goers arriving on the island to discover half-built tents, their luggage being thrown out of the back of a truck, muggers and thieves laying in wait to steal wallets from trust fund kids, unhelpful staff, and "gourmet cuisine" that turned out to be nothing but ham and cheese sandwiches. Stuck at #fyrefestival trying to leave for the last 8 hours. barley any food or water or security or electricity pic.twitter.com/jHPMnJw5gx The dinner that @fyrefestival promised us was catered by Steven Starr is literally bread, cheese, and salad with dressing. #fyrefestival  pic.twitter.com/I8d0UlSNbd The "gourmet cuisine" this weekend was included in the ticket cost. We are being fed salads and ham and cheese sandwiches out of this tent pic.twitter.com/MRv7U0RiyM This is how Fyre Fest handles luggage. Just drop it out of a shipping container. At night. With no lights. #fyrefestival  pic.twitter.com/X5CdZRyJWo ne woman, who paid $10,000 for a VIP ticket, reportedly left her belongings in a half-erected tent, only to have them stolen minutes later. "One guy got punched out by security and they took his wallet," claimed one festival-goer on Reddit, while others claimed that local residents on the island have been assaulting Fyre Festival attendees. The Bahamas Ministry of Tourism today released the following statement on Twitter: Bahamas official statement on Fyre Festival #FyreFestival  pic.twitter.com/NQo8AmXZlQ yre Festival is the brain-child of tech entrepreneur Billy McFarland and Noughties rapper Ja Rule, designed as an exotic alternative to Coachella and promoted by a bevy of Instagram-friendly supermodels including Bella Hadid , Chanel Iman and Emily Ratajkowski. yre Media, the company behind the festival, paid celebrity 'influencers' to promote the festival across their social media before an actual musical line-up had been announced. The campaign worked, with the festival selling thousands of tickets to the island event, described as "a cultural moment created from a blend of music, art, and food," to be held over two weekends on the island of Exumas. here were hints yesterday that Fyre Festival was potentially an elaborate scam, when Blink-182 abruptly pulled out of performing, claiming they were "not confident that we would have what we need to give you the quality of performances we always give fans". The band were due to perform at the festival alongside acts including Skepta , Major Lazer, Disclosure and members of Kanye West's G.O.O.D. Music hip-hop troupe. While the event continues to be traumatic to the many rich, beautiful people currently seeking shelter in an airport and eager to fly home, social media has somewhat understandably reacted with giggles. Pic of Ja Rule right now #fyrefestival  pic.twitter.com/29o0JsEgPo #FyreFestival has to be a social experiment. Surely. "How gullible are rich millennials: a case study of the use of influencers in Exuma" I'm looking forward to the unironically harrowing #fyrefestival film. 2hrs of Naomi Watts frantically asking ppl if they've seen her iPhone. #fyrefestival ? More like Spooky Island #ScrappyDooIsResponsible  pic.twitter.com/8umXuZrfwg Me: Don't care about the #fyrefestival drama Also Me: pic.twitter.com/iP7cd9DjGI Millenials: Nobody can pull off a con like Donald Trump! Ja Rule: Hold my beer. #fyrefestival People paid thousands of dollars to go to the Hunger Games #FyreFestival So a bunch of rich kids got tricked by Ja Rule to fly out to eat cheese sandwiches and get lap dances by IG models? Lmaooooo #fyrefestival Don't worry #fyrefestival , Kendall is bringing Pepsi in the morning ccording to one festival-goer, organisers on the island have handed out sheets of paper, encouraging people to sign in order to get a full refund of their tickets. The Fyre Festival website, however, currently states that "All sales are final. There are no refunds." UPDATE: they are having us sign papers for full refunds. They are just pieces of computer paper but I mean...refunds pic.twitter.com/oNa8EIojl1 he festival's Instagram account has claimed that they are working to "accommodate guests and deliver a great experience", and have directed festival-goers to an apparent safe zone.  Things got off to an unexpected start at day one of Fyre Festival. FOR THOSE CURRENTLY ON GREAT EXUMA We are working to comfortably accommodate guests and deliver a great experience. If you have needs, please head to the "BLUE HOUSE" on the main festival site. Security, first aid, and Fyre Festival staff are here to assist immediately, 24/7. FOR THOSE WITH PENDING TRAVEL TO THE EXUMAS TOMORROW Due to circumstances beyond our control, and in line with a culture of safety, all inbound charter flights to the Exumas have been canceled. Your ticket and any funds uploaded to your RFID band will be refunded. Thank you for bearing with us as we work through the growing pains that every first year event experiences. Revised itinerary information will be shared soon for the remainder of this weekend and weekend two. A post shared by FYRE FESTIVAL (@fyrefestival) on

One woman, who paid $10,000 for a VIP ticket, reportedly left her belongings in a half-erected tent, only to have them stolen minutes later. "One guy got punched out by security and they took his wallet," claimed one festival-goer on Reddit, while others claimed that local residents on the island have been assaulting Fyre Festival attendees.

The Bahamas Ministry of Tourism today released the following statement on Twitter: