Ariana Grande & Cashmere Cat Have Teamed Up for a Third Time: Listen to 'Quit'
Ariana Grande & Cashmere Cat Have Teamed Up for a Third Time: Listen to 'Quit'
Jennifer Lopez Performs New Spanish-Language Single at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Luis Fonsi & Daddy Yankee Perform 'Despacito' at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Ricardo Arjona Serenades the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards With Beautiful Performance Watch J Balvin and Bad Bunny Perform at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Ariana Grande & Cashmere Cat Have Teamed Up for a Third Time: Listen to 'Quit'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Ariana Grande and Cashmere Cat have done it again. The now three-time collaborators dropped another dreamy track Friday (April 28) titled "Quit." The song, which is one of the many impressive collabs on Cashmere Cat's new album,Â , finds Grande using her silky voice to croon about a bad-for-herÂ lover who sheÂ can't resist. "They say, 'No, don't pick up the phone, let them think there's nobody home' /Â But I'm under your spell," Grande sings onÂ one of song's the first verses.Â And when Cashmere Cat drops theÂ beat, Grande repeats, "Yeah I'm gonna regret it."  "Quit" continuesÂ Grande and Cashmere Cat's streak of mesmerizing love songs, asÂ previous team-ups --Â "Be My Baby" (for Grande's 2014 LPÂ ) and the DJ's single "Adore" -- are also about a relationship. But the most recent addition is perhaps the most passionate of the three... in a rather ironic way. Grande isn't the only pop divaÂ Cashmere Cat enlisted for , as he also tapped Camila Cabello for a song titled "Incredible" as well as pop-R&B it girl Kehlani for the album's lead-off track, "NightÂ Night." Listen to those below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Ariana Grande performs onstage during CBS Radio's fourth annual We Can Survive concert at the Hollywood Bowl on Oct. 22, 2016 in Hollywood, Calif.

Ariana Grande and Cashmere Cat have done it again. The now three-time collaborators dropped another dreamy track Friday (April 28) titled "Quit."

The song, which is one of the many impressive collabs on Cashmere Cat's new album,Â 9, finds Grande using her silky voice to croon about a bad-for-herÂ lover who sheÂ can't resist. "They say, 'No, don't pick up the phone, let them think there's nobody home' /Â But I'm under your spell," Grande sings onÂ one of song's the first verses.Â And when Cashmere Cat drops theÂ beat, Grande repeats, "Yeah I'm gonna regret it."

"Quit" continuesÂ Grande and Cashmere Cat's streak of mesmerizing love songs, asÂ previous team-ups --Â "Be My Baby" (for Grande's 2014 LPÂ My Everything) and the DJ's single "Adore" -- are also about a relationship. But the most recent addition is perhaps the most passionate of the three... in a rather ironic way.

Grande isn't the only pop divaÂ Cashmere Cat enlisted for 9, as he also tapped Camila Cabello for a song titled "Incredible" as well as pop-R&B it girl Kehlani for the album's lead-off track, "NightÂ Night." Listen to those below.