Tokyo subway shut down over fears of North Korean attack
Tokyo's subway is shut down over fears of a North Korean attack


Japanese prime minister Sinzo Abe, pictured during his London visit, has branded North Korea a 'grave threat' after a failed missile test closed down the Tokyo subway

The Japanese prime minister branded North Korea a 'grave threat' during his visit to London, after a missile test closed down the Tokyo subway.

Shinzo Abe called the failed test 'absolutely unacceptable' and a 'grave threat to our country', as he spoke at the end of his three-day visit to Russia and Britain.

One of Tokyo's major subways systems shut down all lines for 10 minutes after receiving warning of a North Korean missile launch.

Tokyo Metro official Hiroshi Takizawa says the temporary suspension affected 13,000 passengers this morning.

Service was halted on all nine lines at 6:07 am and was resumed at 6:17 am after it was clear there was no threat to Japan.

Takizawa said it was the first time service had been stopped in response to a missile launch.

Train services are generally suspended in Japan immediately after large earthquakes.

The transport shutdown came after a North Korean missile test failed this morning.

The ballistic missile was fired to the northeast around 5:30 a.m. from the Pukchang area, north of Pyongyang, according to Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga.

All nine lines of Tokyo's subway system were suspended for ten minutes after recieving warning of a North Korean missile launch. The suspended service affected 13,000 people

It was the first time a service had been stopped in response to a missile launch. Trains are generally suspended after large airports

The trains were suspended after North Korea failed this morning. The service returned to normal when it became clear that there was no threat to Tokyo

A ballistic missile was fired to the northeast around 5:30 a.m. from the Pukchang area, north of Pyongyang. The missile is believed to have failed and was condemned by the U.N security council

He said firing a missile would be 'a clear violation of U.N. security council resolutions.'

He added that Japan 'cannot accept repeated provocation by North Korea' and had 'lodged a strong protest against North Korea.'

South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff says the missile flew for several minutes and reached a maximum height of 44 miles before it failed.

South Korea says it's still analyzing what type of missile the North fired.

The missile reached a height of 44 miles before it failed and fell back to earth, according to South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff. North Korea have reiterated their goal to acquire a nuclear capability capable of reaching the United States

After their meeting on Friday, Theresa May said Japan and the UK 'stand steadfast in our condemnation of such destabilising activity' and said the nuclear and missile tests are a violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions.

She said they will continue with international partners to maintain pressure on North Korea and work towards a peaceful solution to rising tensions in the region and across the world.'

Mr Abe said: 'Now is the time for nations who share basic values to unite. The international community must display solidarity,' he added, stressing that he and Mrs May share this 'strong resolve'.

Following what he hopes will be a 'smooth and successful Brexit', Mr Abe said: 'It is my strong hope that a global United Kingdom will play a proactive role in addressing the various challenges which the international community is faced with.'

Norwegian Foreign Minister Borge Brende said Saturday on Twitter that 'new missile test violates SC (Security Council) resolution. Urgent need for common action to reduce tension.'

Norway, which is not a current member of the Security Council, is a founding member of the United Nations and has always considered the body as a cornerstone in its foreign policy.

France's U.N. ambassador says the U.N. Security Council is 'mobilized' and unanimous on the need to denuclearize North Korea.

The U.N. Security Council is 'mobilized' and unanimous on the need to denuclearize North Korea, according to France's U.N. ambassador. Pictured, file photo of North Korean ballistic missile

Francois Delattre said while there were 'nuances' on policy to be worked out among council members, there is unanimity on the need for North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons.

North Korea's state media has reiterated the country's goal of developing a nuclear missile capable of reaching the continental United States.

The Rodong Sinmun newspaper said today that the North revealed two types of new intercontinental ballistic missiles in an April 15 military parade honoring its late state founder, Kim Il Sung, the grandfather of current ruler Kim Jong Un.

The parade featured previously unseen large rocket canisters and launcher trucks.

Francois Delattre said here is unanimity on the need for North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons. Pictured, a file photo of North Korean ballistic rockets

It said: 'The large territory that is the United States has been entirely exposed to our pre-emptive nuclear strike means.'

Referring to the United States sending the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier to Korean waters, the newspaper said that 'rendering aircraft carriers useless is not even a problem' for its military.

The newspaper says that the North displayed three types of ICBMs during the parade, including two new types that were inside the canisters.

Analysts say the North's existing liquid-fuel ICBMS, including the KN-08 and KN-14, are potentially capable of reaching the U.S. mainland, although the North has never flight tested them.

Mr Abe also extended his 'heartfelt condolences' to the victims of the London terror atrocity in Westminster bridge last month, carried out by Khalid Masood.

He said he condemns such 'atrocious and despicable' acts.

'Japan will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with the UK and the international community to continue our battle against terrorism,' he said.