Seth Rogen, Lonely Island Hint at Movie About Musical Fest That Goes 'Horribly Wrong'
Seth Rogen, Lonely Island Hint at Movie About Musical Fest That Goes 'Horribly Wrong'
Jennifer Lopez Performs New Spanish-Language Single at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Luis Fonsi & Daddy Yankee Perform 'Despacito' at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Ricardo Arjona Serenades the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards With Beautiful Performance Watch J Balvin and Bad Bunny Perform at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Seth Rogen, Lonely Island Hint at Movie About Musical Fest That Goes 'Horribly Wrong'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Amidst news of the debacle that was the Fyre Festival, a meant-to-be lavish music festival on a secluded Bahamian island catering to the ultra-rich that ended in a Lord of the Flies-esque disaster of unpreparedness and harsh tropical conditions, funnymen Seth Rogen and The Lonely Island (Andy Samberg, Jorma Taccone, Akiva Schaffer) announced on Twitter that they have been working on a film project with a very similar plot. "This seems like a good time to mention the movie we are making with @thelonelyisland about a music festival that goes HORRIBLY WRONG," Rogen tweeted. This seems like a good time to mention the movie we are making with @thelonelyisland about a music festival that goes HORRIBLY WRONG. The Lonely Island, the parody rap group behind 2016's and viral digital shorts "Lazy Sunday" and "D--- in a Box", corroborated the news, tweeting, "For real, thinking about suing #FyreFestival for stealing our idea." Requests for comment from Rogen and The Lonely Island were not immediately returned. For real, thinking about suing #FyreFestival for stealing our idea. https://t.co/uiLxhzLg85 This seems like a good time to mention the movie we are making with @thelonelyisland about a music festival that goes HORRIBLY WRONG.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Seth Rogen speaks onstage during the The Disaster Artist premiere 2017 SXSW Conference and Festivals on March 12, 2017 in Austin, Texas.

Amidst news of the debacle that was the Fyre Festival, a meant-to-be lavish music festival on a secluded Bahamian island catering to the ultra-rich that ended in a Lord of the Flies-esque disaster of unpreparedness and harsh tropical conditions, funnymen Seth Rogen and The Lonely Island (Andy Samberg, Jorma Taccone, Akiva Schaffer) announced on Twitter that they have been working on a film project with a very similar plot.

"This seems like a good time to mention the movie we are making with @thelonelyisland about a music festival that goes HORRIBLY WRONG," Rogen tweeted.

This seems like a good time to mention the movie we are making with @thelonelyisland about a music festival that goes HORRIBLY WRONG. — Seth Rogen (@Sethrogen) April 28, 2017

The Lonely Island, the parody rap group behind 2016's Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping and viral SNL digital shorts "Lazy Sunday" and "D--- in a Box", corroborated the news, tweeting, "For real, thinking about suing #FyreFestival for stealing our idea."

Requests for comment from Rogen and The Lonely Island were not immediately returned.

This article originally appeared in THR.com.

For real, thinking about suing #FyreFestival for stealing our idea. https://t.co/uiLxhzLg85 — The Lonely Island (@thelonelyisland) April 28, 2017