Kaws on His New Uniqlo Collaboration and Why He Won't Wear His Own Air Jordans
Kaws on His New Uniqlo Collaboration and Why He Won't Wear His Own Air Jordans
I thought Peanuts was the perfect way of working with Uniqlo but doing something new. I’ve worked with them in the past, and I knew that Uniqlo also worked with them, so I thought it would be the perfect fit. Honestly, for me, the process is the same. Working with a company like Uniqlo, the distribution is so great. What I was doing with Original Fake, I couldn’t have possibly reached as many people, and I feel like it’s the right climate to do projects like this. o, not at all. I enjoy hopping around. I’m working on this project right now, and next week I’m doing a show, and I don’t have to think about clothing. Before, when I had a company, I was always thinking about the season approaching in the back of my mind. It’s not fun. No, it happens under the same roof. I do my paintings in the same building as I do the design. It just depends on what fires I need to put out. Sometimes I’ll work on one thing, then something will occur to me that works for the other project, and I’ll just drop it and move over. There’s no rule book or plan that I follow when I do any of these [projects]. I’m designing these very simple collections, so it’s really not different from other things I’ve done; just the outlet has changed. Seeing it disseminate globally on a day is amazing to me. I forgot that Asia was opening 12 hours ahead. I woke up to a barrage of activity happening. Honestly, no. I did this today, and I don’t know what next year will bring, or if I’ll ever do this again. I go with what I think is working and what opportunities present themselves. Masamichi Katayama, who’s a friend of mine, designs all of the Uniqlo stores, and he invited me when he opened the Fifth Avenue store. His company is called Wonderwall. [It was] knowing him and Nigo [that made this collaboration happen]. Nigo moved on from Bape and started to [creative] direct Uniqlo, and it all happened in a casual way. It was casual. I designed the shoe, it came out months later. It was great, it was a fun project. I always say I want to wear [the things I do], then I become too self-conscious about stuff, and I don’t want a conversation [about my shoes] to happen on the train. It’s an interesting thing: I’m not really embedded in the inner workings of that world. There are all these little circles and people only tend to think about the one that they’re in. They’re collectors of art, and I’m sure there are collectors of vases who are very intense about that, too. I appreciate the different circles and don’t try to think about one over the other. It’s awesome, I think it’s great. It’s weird because I’m somewhat removed from it. I can look at it like, “Oh, wow, what a coincidence.” I painted backgrounds for Doug, and I’ve worked for other animation companies. It was a check. When you’re still in school, you’re in this little isolated world. Then you hit your fourth year and say, “Wow, I’ve got to make a living.” Then you think, “Oh my God, what am I going to do for work? This is real.” I started working in animation because it was a way to paint every day and it was a steady check. It was fun, it was good. I did it when I had to, then I moved on to other things.   I was shocked that I could make a living doing art. I didn’t care if it was for animation. I was like, “Really, I can get paid to paint all day?” I wasn’t raised in a way where people got paid to do that. I was like, “Great, I can rent an apartment in Manhattan and move?” I don’t think I’m qualified to have a take on the current graffiti scene. I’ve been out of it for so long. It was great that I was so young and exposed to so many kids in different countries. I had a sense of community through the stuff that I made. It’s really unlike any other art form. My first time out of the country was to Germany, because their government paid for me to be part of some graffiti exhibition. We went and painted this exhibition and hit billboards down the train line all night. It was sort of a playground. After 9/11, things got a little [weird]. For me, I transitioned out of graffiti and started doing phone booths. After 9/11, there became such a suspicious element on the street. Not really, I don’t harp on the past. I see stuff that I’ve done and say, “Wow, that was 20 years ago, I’m old.” I did it at the time to get the work out in front of people and have a dialogue with them. Over time, other outlets have opened up. The complete landscape of communication has changed, and there are other things to do. [Laughs] You know what? When you make stuff all day you tend to put it out in the world and let it have its own life. I don’t need to spark up conversations about my own designs with strangers. No. Some of them I definitely see. Over time, I’ve grown and Complex has grown into this different thing, and I appreciate just how people survive. When Hypebeast first started to post my stuff, I would email them and say, “Why are you using my images? These are my photographs.” When people first started to blog stuff, they would just steal a photo. Now it’s common. It’s a repost or whatever. It’s natural. It’s embedded in every kid. Sometimes you’ll give credit. But at the time it threw me off. If my work can get people into new things and get them inching onto new territory for themselves, that’s great. When I was young, Keith Haring was an artist that I felt comfortable with. He’s a person that made product, but he also did exhibitions. Aside from him, there weren’t a lot of contemporary artists who made me like, “Oh yeah, let me go see that or let me think about that.” He was a gateway. New artists got me into new circle of artists. You’d always look at what’s happening around them geographically. There are all these rabbit holes you can crawl down. I don’t know. I think I met him at a time in the ‘90s, when he was really getting into what he was doing. But he was doing it in such an advanced way to anyone doing streetwear in the U.S. I think there’s a sensibility that we share that adds a comfort level to the relationship. He’s a mellow guy and easy to be around, but also a fascinating person. I’m glad you think my work has a fun element. Is it? I look at some of my sculptures and think they’re horrifying. But if that’s fun to you, that’s great. I think about the stuff I grew up around, observed, and coexisted with and think about how it enters and populates the world. I constantly think about how things exist and what remains relevant. Not really. I’d like to think I have a plan, but I take opportunities as they come. I think of things that I want and try to bring them to fruition. Yes, everything. [Laughs]. No, I don’t know. It’s all there, and it’s part of the work. You take the good with the bad, and you try to build things.

What’s your take on the current graffiti scene?

I don’t think I’m qualified to have a take on the current graffiti scene. I’ve been out of it for so long. It was great that I was so young and exposed to so many kids in different countries. I had a sense of community through the stuff that I made. It’s really unlike any other art form. My first time out of the country was to Germany, because their government paid for me to be part of some graffiti exhibition. We went and painted this exhibition and hit billboards down the train line all night. It was sort of a playground. After 9/11, things got a little [weird]. For me, I transitioned out of graffiti and started doing phone booths. After 9/11, there became such a suspicious element on the street.

Do you miss bombing?

Not really, I don’t harp on the past. I see stuff that I’ve done and say, “Wow, that was 20 years ago, I’m old.” I did it at the time to get the work out in front of people and have a dialogue with them. Over time, other outlets have opened up. The complete landscape of communication has changed, and there are other things to do.

You’re known for always wearing the hat. How many do you own?

These are Original Fake. When did I close that company, how many years now? I have so many boxes left over. You can tell your photographer to Photoshop me out of a photo 10 years ago, and I’ll have the same outfit on. It’s good. It lets me give my attention to work, and I can wake up and reach into my closet half asleep and dress myself.

Do you ever want to wear the brighter stuff that you design?

[Laughs] You know what? When you make stuff all day you tend to put it out in the world and let it have its own life. I don’t need to spark up conversations about my own designs with strangers.

Do you pay attention to the blogs?

No. Some of them I definitely see. Over time, I’ve grown and Complex has grown into this different thing, and I appreciate just how people survive. When Hypebeast first started to post my stuff, I would email them and say, “Why are you using my images? These are my photographs.” When people first started to blog stuff, they would just steal a photo. Now it’s common. It’s a repost or whatever. It’s natural. It’s embedded in every kid. Sometimes you’ll give credit. But at the time it threw me off.

Do you think it’s cool that you have a generation of 16-year olds who started buying your stuff, because they saw it on Hypebeast and they wanted your brand, and now they’re becoming art collectors?

If my work can get people into new things and get them inching onto new territory for themselves, that’s great. When I was young, Keith Haring was an artist that I felt comfortable with. He’s a person that made product, but he also did exhibitions. Aside from him, there weren’t a lot of contemporary artists who made me like, “Oh yeah, let me go see that or let me think about that.” He was a gateway. New artists got me into new circle of artists. You’d always look at what’s happening around them geographically. There are all these rabbit holes you can crawl down.