Under heavy security, Pope Francis celebrates Mass with thousands in Egypt

As helicopter gunships circled above, Pope Francis celebrated Mass here on Saturday with thousands of Egyptians on the last day of a short visit aimed at bolstering the nation’s beleaguered Christian minority and rebuilding ties with Muslim leaders. The crowd of around 15,000 people, while much smaller than what the pontiff usually commands, was boisterous. Some tooted horns and beat on drums, while others released yellow, white and blue balloons, including one in the shape of a cross. Most of the worshippers wore white hats emblazoned with the phrase: “Pope of Peace in Egypt of Peace.” The ceremony came a day after Francis, the second pope to visit the Arab world’s most populous nation, urged Muslim leaders to unite against religious extremism and make concerted efforts to educate youth against militancy and for tolerance. His two-day visit comes less than three weeks after suicide bombs shattered two churches in the Egyptian cities of Tanta and Alexandria, killing more than 40 people. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the bombings. Security for Saturday’s Mass was heavy. Police officers and plainclothes security agents lined the roads leading to Air Defense Stadium, where the Mass was held. Some agents were even on rooftops and walls, while heavily-armed soldiers and black-clad special forces units kept watch and sealed off streets. Despite the security concerns, Francis rode around the stadium in a golf cart, as the crowds waved Egyptian and Vatican flags and a choir and orchestra performed joyous hymns. Children, wearing Pharaonic head dresses, welcomed the pontiff as he stepped towards the podium. “It’s beyond any words I can express,” said Angela Ornagy, 58, a teacher as she sat in the stands waiting for the pontiff arrive. “I am just so thrilled to see him.” A few rows away, Michael Gamal was dressed in a white cap, and carried an Egyptian flag. “He’s an icon and symbol for us,” said the 27-year-old engineer. “We have to come to pray and take his blessings.” Egypt’s Christians are largely Coptic Orthodox, and make up roughly 10 percent of Egypt’s 95 million people. Less than 1 percent of the community are Catholics. At the end of the Mass, Francis blessed Egypt and repeated his call for tolerance. The pontiff is scheduled to have lunch with Egyptian bishops and scholars and take part in prayers at a Catholic seminary in the upscale neighborhood of Maadi. He is scheduled to fly back to Italy in the late afternoon.  Heba Mahfouz contributed to this report.        Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world   Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news

About 15,000 people joined Pope Francis for Mass on Saturday in Cairo. (Osservatore Romano via Reuters)

As helicopter gunships circled above, Pope Francis celebrated Mass here on Saturday with thousands of Egyptians on the last day of a short visit aimed at bolstering the nation’s beleaguered Christian minority and rebuilding ties with Muslim leaders.

The crowd of around 15,000 people, while much smaller than what the pontiff usually commands, was boisterous. Some tooted horns and beat on drums, while others released yellow, white and blue balloons, including one in the shape of a cross.

Most of the worshippers wore white hats emblazoned with the phrase: “Pope of Peace in Egypt of Peace.”

The ceremony came a day after Francis, the second pope to visit the Arab world’s most populous nation, urged Muslim leaders to unite against religious extremism and make concerted efforts to educate youth against militancy and for tolerance. His two-day visit comes less than three weeks after suicide bombs shattered two churches in the Egyptian cities of Tanta and Alexandria, killing more than 40 people. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the bombings.

Security for Saturday’s Mass was heavy. Police officers and plainclothes security agents lined the roads leading to Air Defense Stadium, where the Mass was held. Some agents were even on rooftops and walls, while heavily-armed soldiers and black-clad special forces units kept watch and sealed off streets.

Despite the security concerns, Francis rode around the stadium in a golf cart, as the crowds waved Egyptian and Vatican flags and a choir and orchestra performed joyous hymns. Children, wearing Pharaonic head dresses, welcomed the pontiff as he stepped towards the podium.

“It’s beyond any words I can express,” said Angela Ornagy, 58, a teacher as she sat in the stands waiting for the pontiff arrive. “I am just so thrilled to see him.”

A few rows away, Michael Gamal was dressed in a white cap, and carried an Egyptian flag. “He’s an icon and symbol for us,” said the 27-year-old engineer. “We have to come to pray and take his blessings.”

Egypt’s Christians are largely Coptic Orthodox, and make up roughly 10 percent of Egypt’s 95 million people. Less than 1 percent of the community are Catholics.

At the end of the Mass, Francis blessed Egypt and repeated his call for tolerance.

The pontiff is scheduled to have lunch with Egyptian bishops and scholars and take part in prayers at a Catholic seminary in the upscale neighborhood of Maadi. He is scheduled to fly back to Italy in the late afternoon.

Heba Mahfouz contributed to this report.

Read more

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news