Wyoming, New Mexico Climb On Forbes American Dream Index; Georgia, Pennsylvania Fall
Wyoming, New Mexico Climb On Forbes American Dream Index; Georgia, Pennsylvania Fall
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}   Kurt Badenhausen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Wyoming’s once-booming economy was hit hard by the fall in oil prices due to the state’s heavy dependence on the energy and mineral sectors, but the Cowboy State is starting to see a few bright spots pop up. Coal production has increased 18.5% year-to-date, versus the same period a year ago. The unemployment rate in March dropped to 4.5% from 4.7% the previous month. Unemployment claims are down 38% over the past 10 weeks compared to a year ago. The result: Wyoming, the least-populous state in the U.S., is the biggest gainer on the Forbes American Dream Index with a March score of 103.7 versus 97.2 in February. Forbes introduced the American Dream Index last month as a gauge of whether the economy is strong enough to deliver middle-class prosperity under President Donald Trump. The ADI is intended to capture the momentum of states by looking at seven factors tracking employment, construction and entrepreneurial activity (click here for a detailed methodology). Donald Trump's presidency is off to an uneven start, but one bright spot in the economy is four straight months of gains in manufacturing jobs. (Photo by Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images) We pegged the population-weighted average for the 50 states at 100 to start for January, the month of Trump's inauguration. It rose to 100.5 in February thanks to gains in goods-producing jobs. The ADI rose again in March to 100.8, with unemployment claims down significantly and manufacturing employment up for the fourth straight month, following four straight months of declines. Overall 28 states are up on the ADI in March, 19 are down and three are unchanged. New Mexico had the second biggest gain, up 4.6 points to 101.1. New Mexico’s March unemployment rate of 6.7% was the highest of any state, but the state's ADI benefited from gains in its labor participation rate and a drop in unemployment claims. The main source of momentum for New Mexico is in goods-producing jobs. Employment involving manufacturing, mining, construction and agriculture rose for the fifth straight month, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The gains follow 14 straight months of declines. Despite the gains, there are still 21% fewer of these jobs in the state than a decade ago. Alaska showed the third biggest monthly improvement on the ADI, up 3.7 points to 84.3. Alaska’s overall score remains the lowest of any state, as it was hit hardest by the drop in oil prices with one-third of the state’s jobs tied to the energy sector. Rounding out the top five biggest gainers on the American Dream Index are Montana (up 2.9 to 103.8) and Louisiana (up 2.4 to 97.5). Nevada has the top overall score for the third straight month at 108.8, up 0.9. Construction activity remains robust with building permits up 32% in March versus February. Nevada is more than just Sin City and gambling these days. Reno has emerged as a tech hub fueled in part by tax breaks, which helped lure Tesla to the desert to build its $5 billion Gigafactory. Google purchased 1,210 acres this month at an industrial park outside Reno to build a data center. Georgia’s ADI score fell 2.4 points to 102.5, pushing its overall rank down from fifth to 17 . It was the biggest decline of any state. Georgia's bankruptcy rate is one of the highest in the U.S., and its drop in unemployment claims lagged other states. Pennsylvania (down 1.8 to 102.2), Missouri (down 1.7 to 102.1) and Arkansas (down 1.3 to 105.1) were the only other states to show declines of at least one point on the ADI. Follow me on Twitter or Facebook . Read all of my Forbes stories here . Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Wyoming’s once-booming economy was hit hard by the fall in oil prices due to the state’s heavy dependence on the energy and mineral sectors, but the Cowboy State is starting to see a few bright spots pop up. Coal production has increased 18.5% year-to-date, versus the same period a year ago. The unemployment rate in March dropped to 4.5% from 4.7% the previous month. Unemployment claims are down 38% over the past 10 weeks compared to a year ago. The result: Wyoming, the least-populous state in the U.S., is the biggest gainer on the Forbes American Dream Index with a March score of 103.7 versus 97.2 in February.

Forbes introduced the American Dream Index last month as a gauge of whether the economy is strong enough to deliver middle-class prosperity under President Donald Trump. The ADI is intended to capture the momentum of states by looking at seven factors tracking employment, construction and entrepreneurial activity (click here for a detailed methodology).

We pegged the population-weighted average for the 50 states at 100 to start for January, the month of Trump's inauguration. It rose to 100.5 in February thanks to gains in goods-producing jobs. The ADI rose again in March to 100.8, with unemployment claims down significantly and manufacturing employment up for the fourth straight month, following four straight months of declines. Overall 28 states are up on the ADI in March, 19 are down and three are unchanged.

New Mexico had the second biggest gain, up 4.6 points to 101.1. New Mexico’s March unemployment rate of 6.7% was the highest of any state, but the state's ADI benefited from gains in its labor participation rate and a drop in unemployment claims. The main source of momentum for New Mexico is in goods-producing jobs. Employment involving manufacturing, mining, construction and agriculture rose for the fifth straight month, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The gains follow 14 straight months of declines. Despite the gains, there are still 21% fewer of these jobs in the state than a decade ago.

Alaska showed the third biggest monthly improvement on the ADI, up 3.7 points to 84.3. Alaska’s overall score remains the lowest of any state, as it was hit hardest by the drop in oil prices with one-third of the state’s jobs tied to the energy sector.

Rounding out the top five biggest gainers on the American Dream Index are Montana (up 2.9 to 103.8) and Louisiana (up 2.4 to 97.5).

Nevada has the top overall score for the third straight month at 108.8, up 0.9. Construction activity remains robust with building permits up 32% in March versus February. Nevada is more than just Sin City and gambling these days. Reno has emerged as a tech hub fueled in part by tax breaks, which helped lure Tesla to the desert to build its $5 billion Gigafactory. Google purchased 1,210 acres this month at an industrial park outside Reno to build a data center.

Georgia’s ADI score fell 2.4 points to 102.5, pushing its overall rank down from fifth to 17th. It was the biggest decline of any state. Georgia's bankruptcy rate is one of the highest in the U.S., and its drop in unemployment claims lagged other states.

Pennsylvania (down 1.8 to 102.2), Missouri (down 1.7 to 102.1) and Arkansas (down 1.3 to 105.1) were the only other states to show declines of at least one point on the ADI.

Full coverage: The American Dream Index

- Follow me on Twitter or Facebook. Read all of my Forbes stories here.