Miley Cyrus Gets New Tattoo of Her Dog Emu
Miley Cyrus Gets New Tattoo of Her Dog Emu
Jennifer Lopez Performs New Spanish-Language Single at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Luis Fonsi & Daddy Yankee Perform 'Despacito' at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Ricardo Arjona Serenades the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards With Beautiful Performance Watch J Balvin and Bad Bunny Perform at the 2017 Billboard Latin Music Awards Miley Cyrus Gets New Tattoo of Her Dog Emu  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Miley Cyrus Â has devoted a place on her art-filled body to her Shetland sheepdog, Emu. The singer got a detailed portrait of the pupÂ tattooed on her arm, as seen in an Instagram snapshot shared by celebrity tattoo artistÂ Doctor Woo. "Placed a young Emu on his momÂ @mileycyrusÂ #emufanclub," Woo, an in-demand, by-appointment-onlyÂ artist whose studio can beÂ found at Los Angeles' Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, captioned the photo. His client list has included Â names like Cyrus, Drake, Cara Delevingne and more. Cyrus adopted Emu (full name: Emu Coyne Cyrus)Â in 2014, after a couple months of mourning herÂ Alaskan klee kai, Floyd, who passed away unexpectedly.Â "It's taken some time to be ready for this next step and loving again," she wrote on Instagram at the time . "There will never be anyone like Floyd. There was a bond that was so deep it's irreplaceable but that's not what I am trying to do. Never will I replace Floyd and that's something I had to take time to understand. we had a very special memorial service for Floyd and I felt my angel Floydy give Emu his blessing. I prayed to Floyd to just give him a touch of his awesomeness and he has. He is so special and different than my baby Floyd and I think Floyd did that on purpose."  Since then, the proud pet mama has shared plenty of photos of Emu with fans, even starting the hashtag #emufanclub. The new tattoo was inked just above art of her deadÂ pet pufferfish, PBF, and theÂ Happy Hippie FoundationÂ symbol (for the non-profit organization she founded), as well asÂ a crescent moon. Check it out below. Placed a young Emu on his mom @mileycyrus #emufanclub A post shared by Doctor Woo (@_dr_woo_) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Miley CyrusÂ has devoted a place on her art-filled body to her Shetland sheepdog, Emu. The singer got a detailed portrait of the pupÂ tattooed on her arm, as seen in an Instagram snapshot shared by celebrity tattoo artistÂ Doctor Woo.

"Placed a young Emu on his momÂ @mileycyrusÂ #emufanclub," Woo, an in-demand, by-appointment-onlyÂ artist whose studio can beÂ found at Los Angeles' Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, captioned the photo. His client list has includedÂ names like Cyrus, Drake, Cara Delevingne and more.

Cyrus adopted Emu (full name: Emu Coyne Cyrus)Â in 2014, after a couple months of mourning herÂ Alaskan klee kai, Floyd, who passed away unexpectedly.Â "It's taken some time to be ready for this next step and loving again," she wrote on Instagram at the time. "There will never be anyone like Floyd. There was a bond that was so deep it's irreplaceable but that's not what I am trying to do. Never will I replace Floyd and that's something I had to take time to understand. we had a very special memorial service for Floyd and I felt my angel Floydy give Emu his blessing. I prayed to Floyd to just give him a touch of his awesomeness and he has. He is so special and different than my baby Floyd and I think Floyd did that on purpose."

Since then, the proud pet mama has shared plenty of photos of Emu with fans, even starting the hashtag #emufanclub.

The new tattoo was inked just above art of her deadÂ pet pufferfish, PBF, and theÂ Happy Hippie FoundationÂ symbol (for the non-profit organization she founded), as well asÂ a crescent moon. Check it out below.