Don’t panic: Donald Trump has started out like any past President, and he understands the job ahead
Don’t panic: Donald Trump has started out like any past President, and he understands the job ahead


country brought to the brink of nuclear war by a first time commander-in-chief. A chaotic White House filled with television-ready personalities, more interested in fighting internecine battles than furthering the president’s agenda. A celebrity hairdo wildly unprepared to run a country. Foreign policy operated by fiat, resulting in soured relations with strategic allies. A president grudgingly living in the shadow of his more charismatic predecessor. Lingering murmurs about a lost popular vote and the lack of a mandate to govern. One hundred days come and gone, with no real legislative accomplishments to list. Donald Trump cannot claim to be first to claim any of these presidential booby-prizes. These hundred-day assessments belonged to John F. Kennedy, Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan, Jimmy Carter, George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush, and Gerald Ford, respectively. Many journalists, and certainly...

A country brought to the brink of nuclear war by a first time commander-in-chief. A chaotic White House filled with television-ready personalities, more interested in fighting internecine battles than furthering the president’s agenda. A celebrity hairdo wildly unprepared to run a country. Foreign policy operated by fiat, resulting in soured relations with strategic allies. A president grudgingly living in the shadow of his more charismatic predecessor. Lingering murmurs about a lost popular vote and the lack of a mandate to govern. One hundred days come and gone, with no real legislative accomplishments to list.

Donald Trump cannot claim to be first to claim any of these presidential booby-prizes. These hundred-day assessments belonged to John F. Kennedy, Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan, Jimmy Carter, George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush, and Gerald Ford, respectively. Many journalists, and certainly...