Video Captures Delta Pilot Smacking Woman to Break Up Fight
Video Captures Delta Pilot Smacking Woman to Break Up Fight
In the latest airline episode captured on video, two women can be seen exchanging blows on a jet bridge at the Atlanta airport on April 21 when a Delta Air Lines pilot appears to grab one woman and smack her before stepping back. In two videos, shared Saturday by TMZ , a woman is seen rushing headlong into another woman. Some expletives are heard and a man says, “Knock it off.” As the women tussle on the ground, the pilot steps in and appears to grab one woman’s arm and then delivers a blow. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy A third woman can be seen kicking at the two women and then sitting on them. Delta officials said in a statement on Saturday that they immediately removed the pilot from duty after being made aware last week of the scuffle, which occurred as passengers were deplaning Flight 1827, which flies between Atlanta and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The pilot has since returned to work, Delta officials said, because their investigation revealed that “his actions de-escalated an altercation between passengers.” Advertisement The police responded to the dispute at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, Delta said. But on Saturday, an Atlanta Police Department spokesman, Sgt. Warren Pickard, said that information could not be provided until Monday. The episode comes on the heels of a high-profile debacle, in which a United Airlines passenger, Dr. David Dao, was dragged off an overbooked plane this month in Chicago by airport police to make room for United staff. Videos of the event sparked widespread outrage. United has since reached a settlement with Dr. Dao, who has said that he suffered a concussion and a broken nose and lost two teeth as a result of the episode. Advertisement This past week, an American Airlines flight attendant was suspended after he grabbed a stroller from a woman traveling with young children and argued with other passengers on April 21 at San Francisco International Airport. The episode was also recorded, in part, on video. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

In the latest airline episode captured on video, two women can be seen exchanging blows on a jet bridge at the Atlanta airport on April 21 when a Delta Air Lines pilot appears to grab one woman and smack her before stepping back.

In two videos, shared Saturday by TMZ, a woman is seen rushing headlong into another woman. Some expletives are heard and a man says, “Knock it off.” As the women tussle on the ground, the pilot steps in and appears to grab one woman’s arm and then delivers a blow.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

A third woman can be seen kicking at the two women and then sitting on them.

Delta officials said in a statement on Saturday that they immediately removed the pilot from duty after being made aware last week of the scuffle, which occurred as passengers were deplaning Flight 1827, which flies between Atlanta and Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

The pilot has since returned to work, Delta officials said, because their investigation revealed that “his actions de-escalated an altercation between passengers.”