President Trump's first 100 days 'by the numbers'
Trump's first 100 days 'by the numbers'
Shares               While President Trump's first 100 days in office have produced few major legislative breakthroughs, there are still plenty of statistics to analyze. Here are a few interesting facts and figures, and how some of them compare to those of his predecessor, Barack Obama.  1. Trump has signed more legislation than Obama At this point in 2009, President Obama had signed 15 bills into law. Despite his administration’s lack of big-ticket legislative successes that the president himself spearheaded, Trump has signed 29 bills so far. 2. 45 close to surpassing 44’s first-year golf total Obama, the 44th president, hit the links 29 times in 2009, according to unofficial presidential chronicler Mark Knoller . Trump has already made 21 visits to golf clubs, by ABC News’ count. (Note: the White House has often declined to confirm if/when Trump has actually played.)  3. Trump way behind on foreign travel   Trump has not yet traveled outside the United States since taking office. By comparison, at this point in his young presidency, Obama had made four trips abroad, his first on Feb. 19 to Ottawa, Canada , according to the State Department . Assuming he doesn’t add any trips before his May 25 appearance at the NATO summit in Brussels, Trump will have been in office the longest number of days, without a foreign trip, since Lyndon B. Johnson, who traveled to Canada 10 months after his emergency swearing-in Nov. 22, 1963.  4. Trump has exercised his executive authority more than Obama Critics have pointed to the number of executive orders Trump has signed, on things like advancing the Keystone Pipeline, as an abuse of power. Trump has signed 10 more executive orders than Obama did at this point in his presidency (30 versus 20).  5. Three trips to Trump’s other Pennsylvania Avenue address Obviously, Trump has made history by becoming the first president to also develop a hotel in the nation's capital. But while the hotel there has become the place for Republicans to see and be seen, the president himself has visited three times since his swearing-in.  6. Press briefings, conferences on par with Obama   Trump decries the "lying media" and "fake news" but he’s just about even with his predecessor when it comes to official media opportunities. Press secretary Sean Spicer has briefed the press on-camera 42 times, while at this point in 2009 Robert Gibbs held 40 briefings. Trump has done nine news conferences, while Obama had done 12.  7. One interview each with ABC News Both Presidents Obama and Trump sat for one interview with ABC News: Obama with Charles Gibson Feb. 3 (the big news: Tom Daschle ’s withdrawal from consideration as HHS secretary), and Trump with David Muir Jan. 25 (when he said Mexico would “absolutely” pay the United States back for the border wall).  8. Almost 20 percent of his time has been spent at the ‘Southern White House’ Trump will have spent 18 nights, just under one-fifth of his first 100 days, at his Florida retreat Mar-a-Lago.  9. Daily briefings - not every day As president-elect, Trump said he wouldn’t need to receive the presidential daily briefing, which covers the latest in national security and intelligence issues, every day. And he has held true to that assertion since taking office. The president has received the PDB 48 times, just less than half of his time in office so far, according to ABC News’ analysis.  10. Foreign engagement by-the-numbers   He hasn’t traveled abroad yet but Trump has talked to many world leaders. He has had 65 phone calls with them, 13 bilateral meetings in the West Wing, two such meetings at Mar-a-Lago and has written two letters to foreign heads of state. Trump has held two phone calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin , but he has been in contact the most frequently with German Chancellor Angela Merkel , with whom he has spoken five times by telephone.   Shares                  Trump's first 100 days 'by the numbers'   Office of Government Ethics wants to see ethics waivers given to Trump appointees   Everything to know about the White House Correspondents' Dinner   EPA to change website to match Trump administration policy   Sunday on ‘This Week’: Reince Priebus and Nancy Pelosi   Trump to mark his first 100 days with a rally in Pennsylvania   What you need to know about the 'deep state'   Trump's first 100 days of environmental policy   White House Correspondents' Dinner taking place without its traditional stars, including the president   Trump: My first 100 days are 'most successful' in US history   Democrats bash Trump's first 100 days but 'pretty exciting' for GOP   Democratic lawmakers introduce bill to ban conversion therapy nationwide   Tens of thousands join People's Climate March in D.C. on Trump's 100th day   Russia flaunts Arctic expansion with new military bases   Russian rallies urge Putin not to run again; dozens arrested   Ground search called off for convicted attempted cop killer   Couple welcomes puppy to family with paw-dorable sex reveal photo shoot   Family hopes April the giraffe's calf will be named after late son   Illinois dad walks again just 7 months after car crash left him paralyzed   Amazon's new virtual stylist raises privacy concerns   'Superman' visits tiny cancer patient at hospital window   Bride gets kidney transplant days before wedding: 'It saved my life'   Teaching acceptance of all people, 1 video at a time   2 people who've been pen pals for 42 years meet for the 1st time   Mom and 6 sons cut their hair, donate it to kids in need   SeaWorld welcomes unexpected sea lion pup amid care for sick mother   600-year-old tree that witnessed history taken down

While President Trump's first 100 days in office have produced few major legislative breakthroughs, there are still plenty of statistics to analyze.

Here are a few interesting facts and figures, and how some of them compare to those of his predecessor, Barack Obama.

1. Trump has signed more legislation than Obama

At this point in 2009, President Obama had signed 15 bills into law. Despite his administration’s lack of big-ticket legislative successes that the president himself spearheaded, Trump has signed 29 bills so far.

2. 45 close to surpassing 44’s first-year golf total

Obama, the 44th president, hit the links 29 times in 2009, according to unofficial presidential chronicler Mark Knoller. Trump has already made 21 visits to golf clubs, by ABC News’ count. (Note: the White House has often declined to confirm if/when Trump has actually played.)

3. Trump way behind on foreign travel

Alex Brandon/AP Photo

Trump has not yet traveled outside the United States since taking office. By comparison, at this point in his young presidency, Obama had made four trips abroad, his first on Feb. 19 to Ottawa, Canada, according to the State Department. Assuming he doesn’t add any trips before his May 25 appearance at the NATO summit in Brussels, Trump will have been in office the longest number of days, without a foreign trip, since Lyndon B. Johnson, who traveled to Canada 10 months after his emergency swearing-in Nov. 22, 1963.

4. Trump has exercised his executive authority more than Obama

Critics have pointed to the number of executive orders Trump has signed, on things like advancing the Keystone Pipeline, as an abuse of power. Trump has signed 10 more executive orders than Obama did at this point in his presidency (30 versus 20).

5. Three trips to Trump’s other Pennsylvania Avenue address

Obviously, Trump has made history by becoming the first president to also develop a hotel in the nation's capital. But while the hotel there has become the place for Republicans to see and be seen, the president himself has visited three times since his swearing-in.

6. Press briefings, conferences on par with Obama

ABC News

Trump decries the "lying media" and "fake news" but he’s just about even with his predecessor when it comes to official media opportunities. Press secretary Sean Spicer has briefed the press on-camera 42 times, while at this point in 2009 Robert Gibbs held 40 briefings. Trump has done nine news conferences, while Obama had done 12.

7. One interview each with ABC News

Both Presidents Obama and Trump sat for one interview with ABC News: Obama with Charles Gibson Feb. 3 (the big news: Tom Daschle’s withdrawal from consideration as HHS secretary), and Trump with David Muir Jan. 25 (when he said Mexico would “absolutely” pay the United States back for the border wall).

8. Almost 20 percent of his time has been spent at the ‘Southern White House’

Trump will have spent 18 nights, just under one-fifth of his first 100 days, at his Florida retreat Mar-a-Lago.

9. Daily briefings - not every day

As president-elect, Trump said he wouldn’t need to receive the presidential daily briefing, which covers the latest in national security and intelligence issues, every day. And he has held true to that assertion since taking office. The president has received the PDB 48 times, just less than half of his time in office so far, according to ABC News’ analysis.

10. Foreign engagement by-the-numbers

Evan Vucci/AP Photo

He hasn’t traveled abroad yet but Trump has talked to many world leaders. He has had 65 phone calls with them, 13 bilateral meetings in the West Wing, two such meetings at Mar-a-Lago and has written two letters to foreign heads of state.

Trump has held two phone calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin, but he has been in contact the most frequently with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, with whom he has spoken five times by telephone.