Opposition protests counter President Trump’s 100-day rally

Pennsylvania Democrats and liberal protest groups are holding an opposition rally and march in Harrisburg, Pa., Saturday night to protest President Trump, who will be hosting an event to mark his first 100 days in office in the very same city he referred to as “a war zone” during the campaign. “This rally and march is to send a message to the president that he needs to be more moderate and more inclusive,” said Harrisburg Mayor Eric Papenfuse (D). “I hope he will look around and understand that he needs to do more than rally his supporters. He needs to listen to and speak with those who didn’t vote for him.” Papenfuse will speak at a rally organized by the state Democratic Party across the street from the Trump event at the Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex. Democratic and liberal activists and grass-roots groups plan to hold a march from the center of the city to the rally site, bringing together the two protest events and yielding a combined crowd of at least 650 people, according to organizers. The president announced last week that he would host a campaign rally to celebrate his 100th day in office. The event — scheduled for 7:30 p.m. — will coincide with the annual White House correspondents' dinner, which Trump elected not to attend in a break from tradition. Organizers say they do not expect any clashes between their attendees and Trump supporters. “We want and expect the event to be fun — to keep people’s spirits up,” says Mike Morrill, executive director of Keystone Progress, a grass-roots progressive organization. Pollster and political analyst G. Terry Madonna of Franklin and Marshall College says it’s been “very unusual to have this kind of reaction to an election outcome,” but he expects a large crowd because Pennsylvania has demonstrated “the same bitterness as elsewhere.” State police have informed them that the march will be stopped before they can reach the Trump event, Morrill said. Organizers intend to demonstrate where they’re stopped, Morrill said, through chants, music, noisemakers and “street theater,” including “rubber chickens to symbolize how Donald Trump is afraid to meet us.” For Papenfuse, the sense that there is distance — between Democratic activists and Trump supporters, between the president and his city — is the problem. As candidate, Trump said the city “looked like a war zone” at a Virginia rally in August. “You look at these big, beautiful plants that are just rotting. They’re just rotting. I flew into Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, yesterday and I looked down, and it looked like a war zone where you these massive plants,” Trump told the crowd. The city is coming off hard times, including a failed 2011 bankruptcy filing, and lists more than $400 million in debt — a big tab for a city with a population of just 49,000. The city went into a court-ordered state receivership but has since emerged from that order with a balanced budget and a rebounding housing market, with increased sales in 2016. Selling off a debt-ridden incinerator facility was key to the city’s overall recovery. The rally and march are expected to include labor, women’s rights and environmental groups, among others, with state chapters of Planned Parenthood and the Sierra Club listed among participants. Papenfuse said he has been hearing about many issues from constituents concerned about the policies Trump has pursued in his first 100 days — chiefly the possible elimination of block grants that help impoverished citizens with concerns such as heating, as well as broader concerns such as possible cuts in funding for education and the Environmental Protection Agency. “I think in general, citizens here believe it’s time for a serious discussion around these issues, on both sides,” says Papenfuse, “not continued polarization.” Denise Wilmarth, 65, stood in a field across from the Trump rally site, holding a sign that read "100 Days Of Lies, Hypocrisy, Rambling Ignorance.” “I am afraid for the children,” said the Harrisburg resident, a retired district manager for the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. “No one wants to say it, but bullying has gone up, harassment has gone up. I get responses on my Facebook page — people aren't afraid to say the worst things they think anymore. And it's scary.” A volunteer with Suits to Careers, an agency that gives free clothes to poor people for job interviews, then outfits them when they're hired, she's seen the level of discourse and political thought sink for years. “My ex-husband, I left him two years ago. He voted for Sarah Palin because he thought she was hot.” Josh McNeil, executive director of Conservation Voters of America, joined the growing crowd early, saying he'd decided to come to “make a statement that President Trump did not earn a mandate to destroy the environment. No one voted for him to dismantle the EPA, but that has been a priority of his first 100 days.” Kirsten Moe, 74, also of Harrisburg and a retired accountant, said she “had to be here because he is in my town, and I need to represent my family.” She said she is most concerned about the anti-scientific stand of the Trump administration. “He has turned his back on science and the environment,” she said. She said she was also bothered by what then-candidate Trump said about her city. “When I heard he called it a war zone, I just thought it was crazy. This is my home, and I live in a lovely neighborhood.” Anti-Trump protests and events were planned in cities across the country, including Utica and Syracuse, N.Y., Boston, San Francisco and Chicago. In Washington, marchers are gathering for the People's Climate March in support of environmental protection efforts, some of which have been rolled back during Trump's first 100 days.



Protesters hold signs at an anti-Trump rally in Harrisburg, Pa., on April 29. (Steve Volk for The Washington Post)

Pennsylvania Democrats and liberal protest groups are holding an opposition rally and march in Harrisburg, Pa., Saturday night to protest President Trump, who will be hosting an event to mark his first 100 days in office in the very same city he referred to as “a war zone” during the campaign.

“This rally and march is to send a message to the president that he needs to be more moderate and more inclusive,” said Harrisburg Mayor Eric Papenfuse (D). “I hope he will look around and understand that he needs to do more than rally his supporters. He needs to listen to and speak with those who didn’t vote for him.”

Papenfuse will speak at a rally organized by the state Democratic Party across the street from the Trump event at the Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex. Democratic and liberal activists and grass-roots groups plan to hold a march from the center of the city to the rally site, bringing together the two protest events and yielding a combined crowd of at least 650 people, according to organizers.

The president announced last week that he would host a campaign rally to celebrate his 100th day in office. The event — scheduled for 7:30 p.m. — will coincide with the annual White House correspondents' dinner, which Trump elected not to attend in a break from tradition.

Organizers say they do not expect any clashes between their attendees and Trump supporters. “We want and expect the event to be fun — to keep people’s spirits up,” says Mike Morrill, executive director of Keystone Progress, a grass-roots progressive organization.

Pollster and political analyst G. Terry Madonna of Franklin and Marshall College says it’s been “very unusual to have this kind of reaction to an election outcome,” but he expects a large crowd because Pennsylvania has demonstrated “the same bitterness as elsewhere.”

State police have informed them that the march will be stopped before they can reach the Trump event, Morrill said. Organizers intend to demonstrate where they’re stopped, Morrill said, through chants, music, noisemakers and “street theater,” including “rubber chickens to symbolize how Donald Trump is afraid to meet us.”

For Papenfuse, the sense that there is distance — between Democratic activists and Trump supporters, between the president and his city — is the problem. As candidate, Trump said the city “looked like a war zone” at a Virginia rally in August.

“You look at these big, beautiful plants that are just rotting. They’re just rotting. I flew into Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, yesterday and I looked down, and it looked like a war zone where you these massive plants,” Trump told the crowd.

The city is coming off hard times, including a failed 2011 bankruptcy filing, and lists more than $400 million in debt — a big tab for a city with a population of just 49,000. The city went into a court-ordered state receivership but has since emerged from that order with a balanced budget and a rebounding housing market, with increased sales in 2016. Selling off a debt-ridden incinerator facility was key to the city’s overall recovery.

The rally and march are expected to include labor, women’s rights and environmental groups, among others, with state chapters of Planned Parenthood and the Sierra Club listed among participants. Papenfuse said he has been hearing about many issues from constituents concerned about the policies Trump has pursued in his first 100 days — chiefly the possible elimination of block grants that help impoverished citizens with concerns such as heating, as well as broader concerns such as possible cuts in funding for education and the Environmental Protection Agency.

“I think in general, citizens here believe it’s time for a serious discussion around these issues, on both sides,” says Papenfuse, “not continued polarization.”

Denise Wilmarth, 65, stood in a field across from the Trump rally site, holding a sign that read "100 Days Of Lies, Hypocrisy, Rambling Ignorance.”

“I am afraid for the children,” said the Harrisburg resident, a retired district manager for the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. “No one wants to say it, but bullying has gone up, harassment has gone up. I get responses on my Facebook page — people aren't afraid to say the worst things they think anymore. And it's scary.”

A volunteer with Suits to Careers, an agency that gives free clothes to poor people for job interviews, then outfits them when they're hired, she's seen the level of discourse and political thought sink for years. “My ex-husband, I left him two years ago. He voted for Sarah Palin because he thought she was hot.”

Josh McNeil, executive director of Conservation Voters of America, joined the growing crowd early, saying he'd decided to come to “make a statement that President Trump did not earn a mandate to destroy the environment. No one voted for him to dismantle the EPA, but that has been a priority of his first 100 days.”

Kirsten Moe, 74, also of Harrisburg and a retired accountant, said she “had to be here because he is in my town, and I need to represent my family.”

She said she is most concerned about the anti-scientific stand of the Trump administration. “He has turned his back on science and the environment,” she said.

She said she was also bothered by what then-candidate Trump said about her city.

“When I heard he called it a war zone, I just thought it was crazy. This is my home, and I live in a lovely neighborhood.”

Anti-Trump protests and events were planned in cities across the country, including Utica and Syracuse, N.Y., Boston, San Francisco and Chicago. In Washington, marchers are gathering for the People's Climate March in support of environmental protection efforts, some of which have been rolled back during Trump's first 100 days.

Janell Ross contributed to this report.